
@@@PAGE 1@@@
---LEFT---
Tacoma Community
Tacoma Community College
---RIGHT---
College
2025 - 2026 Catalog

@@@PAGE 2@@@
---LEFT---
Tacoma Community College 2025 - 2026 Catalog
President's Welcome
About TCC
Academic Calendar
Accreditation
Institutional Accreditation
Specialized Program Accreditations
Apply to TCC
Costs & Funding
Programs to Prepare for College
Register for Classes
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Instructional Formats
Grades
Graduation Requirements
Transferring from TCC
Running Start & High School Completion
International Programs
Student Support Services
College Administration
Program & Department Chair List
Faculty
Programs - Pathways
2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course List
Physical Education (Activity Courses)
Accounting Department
Adult Basic Education Department
Allied Health Department
Anthropology Department
Art Department
Astronomy Department
Atmospheric Science Department
Biology Department
Botany Department
Business Department
Chemistry Department
Chinese Department
College Department
Communication Studies Department
Community Health Department
Computed Tomography Department
Computer Science Department
Computer User Department
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Department
Early Childhood Education Department
Earth Sciences Department
Economics Department
Education Department
Emergency and Medical Health Services Department
Engineering Department
English Language Acquisition Department
English for Academic Purposes Department
Environmental Science Department
Environmental Sustainability Department
Fresh Start Department
General Transfer Department
Geography Department
Geology Department
Health Information Management Department
Health Information Technology Department
History Department
Home & Family Life Department
Human Development Department
Human Services Department
---RIGHT---
1
4
4
6
8
8
8
9
11
14
14
16
16
17
19
19
20
21
21
26
27
29
39
40
40
40
51
57
62
70
81
86
88
102
103
136
142
143
144
151
163
170
175
178
188
197
199
200
205
216
230
235
244
249
252
258
267
267
268
277
292
301
302
303

@@@PAGE 3@@@
---LEFT---
Humanities Department
Information Technology Department
Integrated Basic Education Skills Training Department
Japanese Department
Library Science Department
Logisitics Department
Mathematics Department
Medical Office Department
Music Department
Nursing Department
Nursing Assistant Certified Department
Nutrition Department
Oceanography Department
Paralegal Studies Department
Philosophy Department
Physical Education Department
Physics Department
Political Science Department
Pre-Nursing Department
Psychology Department
Radiologic Science Department
Respiratory Therapy Department
Science Department
Sociology Department
Spanish Department
World Languages Department
Writing Center Department
Writing Studies Department
---RIGHT---
314
316
331
336
338
338
340
349
352
371
385
387
388
390
404
406
410
415
421
425
432
443
454
455
463
464
464
465

@@@PAGE 4@@@
---LEFT---
President's Welcome
Welcome to Tacoma Community College!
Whether you are here to complete high school, strengthen your English language
professional or technical certificate, pursue an associate or bachelor’s degree, or prepare
a university, we are honored to be part of your journey.
This catalog is designed to be your guide as you explore academic opportunities and
forward. At TCC, you can choose from five pathways:
Business, Paralegal, and Technology
Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication
Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences
Healthcare
Science, Engineering, and Math
No matter your goals, TCC is here to support you every step of the way. We recognize
person—not only as a student—and are committed to providing the resources you
Whether you need a meal from the Titan Food Pantry, a scholarship from the TCC Foundation,
from Counseling Services, guidance from Academic Advising, or help in your classes
Tutoring Centers, our campus community is here to help you thrive.
At TCC, you will find a welcoming, diverse, and inclusive environment. Our students
learning from you as much as you learn from us. You are a vital part of our college community,
Thank you for choosing TCC! We’re so glad you’re here, and we look forward to seeing
Warmly,
Ivan L. Harrell, II, Ph.D.
President, Tacoma Community College
About TCC
Tacoma Community College (TCC) is a public, comprehensive community college dedicated
region since 1965, TCC provides accessible, high-quality education that prepares students
a commitment to equity, innovation, and engagement, TCC fosters an inclusive learning
contribute meaningfully to their communities.
Tacoma Campus
Located on a 150-acre site in west Tacoma, the Tacoma campus houses 28 buildings
learning resource center, art gallery, gymnasium, student center, and Early Learning
6501 S 19th Street
Tacoma, Washington 98466
Phone: 253-566-5000
Gig Harbor Campus
Situated northwest of Tacoma across the Narrows Bridge, our Gig Harbor campus
experience, our Gig Harbor campus is ideally located for residents of the peninsula community.
3993 Hunt Street Northwest
Gig Harbor, Washington 98335
253-460-2424
About TCC
Mission, Vision, and Values
Mission
As the community’s college, we create meaningful learning, advance equity, and strengthen
Vision
We are a premier community college where all students, faculty, staff, and community
leading to equitable opportunities for success in learning, life and work. We foster vibrant,
Values
The college promotes student success by embracing core values of:
• Community
We respect the lived experiences of all individuals, value the interconnectedness
lasting equitable impact.
• Responsibility
We lead by example through the practice of environmental, institutional,
environment, and we care for each other.
• Integrity
We practice inclusion, honesty, transparency, compassion, and follow-through
• Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
---RIGHT---
skills, earn a
to transfer to
chart your path
you as a whole
need to succeed.
support
through the
TCC President Ivan Harrell
bring a wide range of backgrounds, experiences, and aspirations, and we look forward to
and your presence makes us stronger.
all you will accomplish.
to student success and community enrichment. Serving the South Puget Sound
for transfer to four-year institutions, successful careers, and lifelong learning. With
environment where students from diverse backgrounds can achieve their goals and
(.5 million sq. ft. of covered area) including a health science center, computer center,
Center.
offers credit and non-credit classes. Known for providing a small, intimate learning
student and community success.
members are welcomed, appreciated, and valued. We engage students where they are,
productive partnerships that benefit our students and strengthen our community.
of campus, local and global communities, and seek collective action that creates
and personal sustainability. We are dedicated stewards of student success and our
in everything we do.

@@@PAGE 5@@@
---LEFT---
We recognize historic inequities and empower our community to challenge
be their authentic selves and are welcomed, heard, known, represented,
• Agility
We remain flexible, proactive, innovative, and curious in order to increase
cross-pollination of ideas, admit when we are wrong, and value learning
• Excellence
We empower all people to be their best selves every day so we can ensure
Student Experience Statement
Tacoma Community College aims to provide a quality education exemplified by a transformative
• an academically rigorous and relevant education that fosters a love of learning
• a sense of belonging created through meaningful relationships with faculty
• personalized and accessible support services that meet the individual needs
• clearly defined pathways to completion, transfer, and career placement.
Tacoma Community College faculty, staff, and administration support this experience
• an inclusive and welcoming community dedicated to equitable educational
• a student-ready institution equipped to serve all learners;
• an ongoing commitment to eliminating barriers to student success; and
• a culture reflecting compassion, respect, and continuous improvement
Land Acknowledgement
We are so fortunate that TCC is located on the ancestral territory of First Nations peoples.
area home since time immemorial. In 1854, the Medicine Creek Treaty forcibly removed
The state of Washington has the 7th largest Native American population in the U.S.
We recognize that the privilege of our campus being on the land on which we now stand
We gather here knowing that our presence is part of an ongoing invasion and that
indigenous inhabitants. We acknowledge that these injustices are true here and also
and New Zealand, just to name a few.
About TCC
Strategic Plan
Tacoma Community College’s Strategic Plan provides the vision and direction that
community, the plan outlines our priorities, goals, and values, ensuring that every decision
2020-2025 Strategic Plan
Core Themes:
Advancing Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion:
We empower students, faculty, and staff through equitable access to opportunities, knowledge,
Cultivating Exceptional Learning
We encourage and challenge students to excel in a supportive teaching and learning environment.
Strengthening Community Partnerships
The college and the community will thrive from intentionally-sustained community partnerships.
Enhancing Institutional Vitality
We build toward a sustainable future by anticipating and meeting the needs of our community.
About TCC
Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment
Non-Discrimination Statement
Tacoma Community College values diversity and is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and employment and recognizes its responsibility for investigation, resolution, implementation
workplace to stop, remediate, and prevent discrimination on the basis of race, color,
information, gender identity, gender expression, sex, sexual orientation, marital status,
guide dog or service animal.
To this end, Tacoma Community College has enacted policies prohibiting discrimination
to be in violation of these policies will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
includes sexual harassment (unwelcome sexual conduct of various types). Tacoma
employees, and applicants with disabilities in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities
Compliance Inquiries and Contacts
Title II and Title IX
Stephen Smith
Human Resources, Building 14
253-566-5055
ssmith@tacomacc.edu,
---RIGHT---
and overcome systemic barriers to create a campus and society where all people can
and successful.
access and success. We practice constant collaboration among groups, encourage
new things.
relevance and quality in our academic and personal development.
student experience. That student experience is characterized by:
and personal growth;
and staff who reflect the diversity of the student body;
of each student; and
with:
outcomes for all students;
in service of the local community.
The Puyallup tribe, a member of the Coast Salish tribal peoples, have called this
them from their lands and onto the Puyallup reservation.
with 29 federally recognized tribes represented, as well as several unrecognized tribes.
comes at great cost to the Coast Salish peoples.
these lands were and continue to be forcibly and unlawfully taken from their original
for indigenous communities around the globe, like the First Peoples of Mauna Kea, Papua
guide our work as an institution. Rooted in our mission to serve students and our
supports student success, equity, and innovation.
and resources.
and Educator. Tacoma Community College provides equal opportunity in education
of corrective measures, and monitoring the educational environment and
national origin, age, perceived or actual physical or mental disability, pregnancy, genetic
creed, religion, honorably discharged veteran or military status, or use of a trained
against and harassment of members of these protected classes. Any individual found
dismissal from the college or from employment. Prohibited sex discrimination
Community College provides reasonable accommodations for qualified students,
Act and Federal Rehabilitation Act.

@@@PAGE 6@@@
---LEFT---
Section 504
Kathryn Held
253-566-5328
kheld@tacomacc.edu
Academic Calendar
Academic Calendar
2025-2026 Academic Calendar
2026-2027 Academic Calendar
2025-2026 Important Dates
Please note: All dates are subject to change. For the most accurate and current information,
programs/academiccalendar.
---RIGHT---
refer to the Academic Calendar at https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-

@@@PAGE 7@@@
---LEFT---
IMPORTANT DATE
Priority Enrollment begins (state mandated)
Open Enrollment begins
Financial aid deadline
Priority graduation application deadline
Textbook sales begin
Tuition and fees due (Payment Plan Information)
1st Drop for Non-Payment
Professional Development
Term Begins/First Day of Classes
Enrollment for senior citizens & state employees with tuition waivers begins
Last day to add credit classes WITHOUT instructor permission
Last day to be added from the waitlist
Drop for Non-Attendance begins
Last day for 100% refund
2nd Drop for Non-Payment
Last day to change Audit/Credit status
Drop for Non-Attendance ends
Assessment Day (no classes, offices open)
Last day to add credit classes WITH instructor permission
Last day to use a Permission Number
Last day to drop a class with no grade reported
Financial Aid Census date (enrollment is locked for financial aid purposes)
Last day for 50% refund
Educational Planning Day (No daytime classes. Classes starting at 3:00 pm or after
Last day to withdraw with a grade of “W”
Last day for “S/U” grading option
Last Day of Classes
Grade rosters open
Final Exams
---RIGHT---
FALL 2025 WINTER 2026 SPRING 2026 SUMMER 2026
May 12 Nov 3 Feb 9 May 11
(Mon) (Mon) (Mon) (Mon)
May 19 Nov 10 Feb 17 May 18
(Mon) (Mon) (Tue) (Mon)
May 23 Oct 10 Jan 23 Apr 17
(Fri) (Fri) (Fri) (Fri)
May 23 Nov 14 Feb 20 May 22
(Fri) (Fri) (Fri) (Fri)
Aug 25 Dec 8 Mar 9 Jun 8
(Mon) (Mon) (Mon) (Mon)
Sep 4 Dec 18 Mar 19 Jun 18
(Thu) (Thu) (Thu) (Thu)
Sep 10 Dec 24 Mar 25 Jun 24
(Wed) (Wed) (Wed) (Wed)
Sep 15-18 Feb 26
- -
(Mon-Thu) (Thu)
Sep 22 Jan 5 Apr 6 Jul 7
(Mon) (Mon) (Mon) (Tue)
Sep 22 Jan 5 Apr 6 Jul 7
(Mon) (Mon) (Mon) (Tue)
Sep 23 Jan 6 Apr 7 Jul 8
(Tue) (Tue) (Tue) (Wed)
Sep 23 Jan 6 Apr 7 Jul 8
(Tue) (Tue) (Tue) (Wed)
Sep 24 Jan 7 Apr 8 Jul 9
(Wed) (Wed) (Wed) (Thu)
Sep 28 Jan 11 Apr 12 Jul 13
(Sun) (Sat) (Sun) (Mon)
Oct 1 Jan 14 Apr 15 Jul 15
(Wed) (Wed) (Wed) (Wed)
Oct 1 Jan 14 Apr 15 Jul 16
(Wed) (Wed) (Wed) (Thu)
Oct 2 Jan 15 Apr 16 Jul 16
(Thu) (Thu) (Thu) (Thu)
Oct 3 Jun 5
- -
(Fri) (Fri)
Oct 6 Jan 16 Apr 17 Jul 20
(Mon) (Fri) (Fri) (Mon)
Oct 6 Jan 16 Apr 17 Jul 20
(Mon) (Fri) (Fri) (Mon)
Oct 6 Jan 16 Apr 17 Jul 20
(Mon) (Fri) (Fri) (Mon)
Oct 6 Jan 16 Apr 17 Jul 20
(Mon) (Fri) (Fri) (Mon)
Oct 11 Jan 24 Apr 25 Jul 20
(Sat) (Sat) (Sat) (Mon)
Oct 20 Jan 27 Apr 30
will meet.) -
(Mon) (Tue) (Thu)
Nov 20 Mar 5 Jun 4 Aug 15
(Thu) (Thu) (Thu) (Sat)
Nov 20 Mar 5 Jun 4 Aug 17
(Thu) (Thu) (Thu) (Mon)
Dec 5 Mar 16 Jun 12 Aug 27
(Fri) (Mon) (Fri) (Thu)
Dec 8 Mar 17 Jun 15 Aug 24
(Mon) (Tue) (Mon) (Mon)
Dec 8-11 Mar 17- 20 Jun 15-18 Aug 27
(Mon-Thu) (Tue-Fri) (Mon-Thu) (Thu)

@@@PAGE 8@@@
---LEFT---
Graduation application deadline
Term Ends
Commencement
Grades due from faculty via ctcLink by 11:00am
Grades available online
Degrees posted by 5:00pm
Accreditation
Accreditation is a rigorous, nationally recognized process that affirms the quality, integrity,
and universities demonstrate compliance with established standards and accountability
degrees and certificates awarded are validated by the U.S. Department of Education
aid, teaching, and research support.
Institutional Accreditation
Tacoma Community College is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges
https://nwccu.org/
Specialized Program Accreditations
The following programs hold specialized accreditation recognized by the Council for
• Associate in Nursing, Direct Transfer Agreement / Major Related Program
◦ Regionally Approved by: Washington State Board of Nursing
◦ Accredited by: Accrediting Commission for Education in Nursing
3390 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 1400, Atlanta, GA 30326
https://www.acenursing.org/
◦ Initial Accreditation: June 1980
◦ Most Recent Accreditation Review: March 2021
• Bachelor of Applied Science in Health Information Management
◦ Accredited by: Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics
200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100 Chicago, IL 60601
https://www.cahiim.org/
◦ Initial Accreditation: February 2020
• Associate in Applied Science in Health Information Technology
◦ Accredited by: Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics
200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100 Chicago, IL 60601
https://www.cahiim.org/
◦ Most Recent Accreditation Review: May 2022
• Associate in Applied Science in Respiratory Therapy
◦ Accredited by: Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory
https://coarc.com/
◦ Most Recent Accreditation Review: July 2020
• Paramedic Certificate, Associate in Applied Science in Emergency Medical
◦ Accredited by: Committee on Accreditation of Educational
8301 Lakeview Parkway Suite 111-312 Rowlett, TX 75088
https://coaemsp.org/;
In collaboration with the Commission on Accreditation of Allied
9355 113th St. N, #7709 Seminole, FL 33775
https://www.caahep.org/
◦ Initial Accreditation: October 15, 1986
◦ Most Recent Accreditation Review: January 18, 2024
• Associate in Applied Science in Diagnostic Medical Sonography
◦ Accredited by: Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health
9355 113th St. N, #7709 Seminole, FL 33775
https://www.caahep.org/;
Upon recommendation of: Joint Review Committee on Education
6021 University Boulevard Suite 500 Ellicott City, MD 21043
https://www.jrcdms.org/
◦ Concentration(s): Obstetrics and Gynecology, Abdominal-Extended
◦ Initial Accreditation: September 19, 2008
---RIGHT---
Dec 11 Mar 20 Apr 27 Aug 27
(Thu) (Fri) (Mon) (Thu)
Dec 11 Mar 20 Jun 18 Aug 27
(Thu) (Fri) (Thu) (Thu)
Jun 20
- - -
(Sat)
Dec 15 Mar 23 Jun 22 Aug 31
(Mon) (Mon) (Mon) (Mon)
Dec 16 Mar 24 Jun 23 Sep 1
(Tue) (Tue) (Tue) (Tue)
Dec 22 Mar 30 Jul 6 Sep 7
(Mon) (Mon) (Mon) (Mon)
and effectiveness of higher education institutions. Through accreditation, colleges
to the educational community and the public. Accreditation also ensures that the
and that the institution remains eligible for Title IV federal funding, including financial
and Universities (NWCCU), 8060 165th Avenue NE, Suite 200, Redmond, WA 98052.
Higher Education Accreditation and/or the U.S. Department of Education:
(ACEN),
and Information Management Education (CAHIIM)
and Information Management Education (CAHIIM)
Care (CoARC)
and Health Services
Programs for the EMS Professions (CoAEMSP)
Health Education Programs (CAAHEP)
Education Programs (CAAHEP)
in Diagnostic Medical Sonography

@@@PAGE 9@@@
---LEFT---
◦ Continuing Accreditation: September 1, 2021
• Associate of Applied Science in Radiologic Science
◦ Accredited by: Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic
20 N. Wacker Drive, Suite 2850 Chicago, IL 60606
https://www.jrcert.org/
◦ Most Recent Accreditation Review: January 23, 2024
• Associate in Applied Science in Paralegal, Paralegal Professional Certificate
◦ Approved by: American Bar Association (ABA) 321 North
https://www.americanbar.org/groups/paralegals/paralegal-resource-directory/
Apply to TCC
Apply
Admissions/Entry Services
Phone: 253-566-6042
Email: admissions@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
TCC prides itself as being the community’s college. The college serves the Tacoma community
access to higher education. Consistent with its open-door policy, TCC practices equal
race, color, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, gender identity, gender
of war.
We encourage new students to apply online using the online admissions application
submit your OAA, please allow up to five business days for your application to be processed.
Students typically only complete the OAA once. If you were a student at TCC and haven’t
your accounts.
Secondary Admission Programs
Admission to select programs is based on individual qualifications and the availability
TCC online admissions application and a separate program-specific application.
For detailed admission requirements and deadlines, please visit the website of the specific
• Applied Management
• Advanced Networking & Data Security
• Community Health Professional
• Diagnostic Medical Sonography
• Emergency Medical Services
• Health Information Management
• Nursing
• Radiology
• Respiratory Therapy
Apply to TCC
Residency
Residency is determined when students apply for admissions at Washington State community
28B.15.012-014). To be classified as a resident for tuition purposes, students must have
of the quarter. “Domicile” is a legal term used to describe a person’s true, fixed, and
domicile in Washington, a person must prove physical presence in the state plus intent
• Independent students must have a domicile for 12 consecutive months
financial aid in their name, to pay living and tuition expenses and are not
• Dependent students are required to have a parent or court-appointed legal
• U.S. citizens, permanent residents, residency affidavit qualifiers, DACA,
(PRUCOL) must have a domicile for 12 consecutive months.
• Applications to change residency status will be accepted up to the 30th
is made. Applications made after that date in any quarter shall be considered
approved, the difference in tuition will be refunded.
Establishing a Domicile
When applying for a residency status change, students must provide evidence of an
of factors are considered and include the following:
• WA driver’s license or state identification obtained 12 months prior to quarter
• WA vehicle registration if you use or own a vehicle registered 12 months
• WA voter registration with date registered
• Lease, rental agreement, home purchase verifying domicile in Washington
---RIGHT---
Technology (JRCERT)
Clark Street Chicago, IL 60654
by being an open-door admission school. This policy reflects the commitment of
opportunity in its educational programs. Admission decisions are not based on basis of
expression, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, creed, religion, or status as a veteran
(OAA) at least two weeks prior to the quarter in which you want to begin. Once you
Once processed, you will receive an email with your next steps.
taken any classes for one year, email admissions@tacomacc.edu so we can activate
of space in the desired program. To apply, students must complete both the standard
program you are interested in.
colleges and public universities based on Revised Code of Washington (RCW
established a domicile in Washington for 12 continuous months prior to the beginning
permanent home. A person can only have one legal domicile at a time. To establish a
to permanently remain in the state.
for purposes other than education. Independent students use their own income, or
claimed as a dependent exemption on a tax return, regardless of age.
guardian who has maintained a domicile for 12 consecutive months.
E, H, and L visas (and others), and students Permanently Residing Under Color of Law
calendar day following the first day of instruction of the quarter for which application
for the following quarter. If non-resident tuition was paid and the request was
established Washington domicile to verify they meet residency requirements. A variety
prior to quarter
for 12 consecutive months prior to quarter

@@@PAGE 10@@@
---LEFT---
• Copy of federal tax return/W2 or paystubs. When the domicile documents
starts. The evidence provided must qualify the student as a resident prior
year of eligibility are presumed to have moved to Washington for primarily
burden of proof is on the applicant
Military Personnel
Veterans
A veteran who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located
resident tuition rates.
A spouse or child using transferred benefits who lives in the state in which the institution
in the school may qualify for resident tuition rates.
A spouse or child using benefits under the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry
(regardless of their formal state of residence) and enrolls in the school may qualify for
Section 103 of PL 115-407, Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 amends Title
a veteran student and family member to attend or participate in a course of education,
certificate of eligibility of entitlement to educational assistance.
Active-Duty
Active-duty military, Washington National Guard members, and their spouses and dependents
to be submitted to Admissions via email (admissions@tacomacc.edu) or in-person in
Those who maintain a Home of Record of WA state, and that are stationed elsewhere,
Statement (LES) needs to be submitted to the Admissions department for review. Section
US Code 3679:
Tacoma Community College has a policy in place that will allow a veteran student and
providing the veteran student and family member submits a certificate of eligibility for
Residency Affidavit Eligibility
The Residency Affidavit allows eligible students to pay resident tuition rates at Washington
for residency though the standard residency process. To qualify for resident tuition
the following conditions:
• Resided in WA state for one year prior to the student’s admitted quarter
• Completed the equivalent of a high school diploma (diploma, GED, etc)
• Agree that when they are eligible to do so, they will apply for a valid citizenship
If the above criteria have been met, the student may complete the Residency Affidavit
Aid Application (WASFA).
The Basic Education for Adults (BEdA) department offers a high school completion
participate in this program to earn a high school diploma.
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
On June 15, 2012, the Secretary of Homeland Security announced that individuals
consideration of deferred action for a period of two years, subject to renewal. They are
to defer removal action against an individual for a certain period of time. Deferred action
If a student has been approved for DACA (current or expired), they will need to submit
department to be reviewed for resident tuition.
For additional residency information, please call 253-566-5108 or email admissions@tacomacc.edu.
Apply to TCC
Transfer Students
After applying to Tacoma Community College, transfer students should submit both
Unofficial Transcripts for Course Placement
Certain courses at Tacoma Community College require the successful completion of
and registration for their first quarter, students should email unofficial transcripts to
and apply milestones for courses successfully completed. These milestones are used
requirements. Students can view their milestones by logging into ctcLink and navigating
Official Transcripts for Transfer Credit Evaluation
Official transcripts must be sent directly from the issuing institution to Enrollment Services.
Tacoma Community College
Enrollment Services, Bldg. 7
6501 S. 19th St
Tacoma, WA 98466
credeval@tacomacc.edu
Official printed transcripts in a sealed envelope will also be accepted and can be dropped
---RIGHT---
are reviewed, the residency officer will determine when the one-year waiting period
to the first day of the quarter. Students who enroll in six credits or more during their
education purposes; therefore, they will need to overcome this presumption. The
(regardless of their formal state of residence) and enrolls in the school may qualify for
of higher learning is located (regardless of their formal state of residence) and enrolls
Scholarship who lives in the state in which the institution of higher learning is located
resident tuition rates.
38 US Code 3679: Tacoma Community College has a policy in place that will allow
pending VA payment, providing the veteran student and family member submits a
qualify as residents for tuition purposes. The military orders for WA state need
building 8.
may qualify for resident tuition rates. The military member’s Leave and Earnings
103 of PL 115-407, “Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018” amends Title 38
family member to attend or participate in a course of education, pending VA payment,
entitlement to educational assistance under Chapter 31 or Chapter 33.
state colleges and universities. This affidavit is only for those who do not qualify
status, students must complete the affidavit/ declaration/certification if they have met
with our institution.
within the United States.
status within the US if they do not currently have one.
with the Admissions department or while completing the Washington State Financial
program for students aged 21 and older. Undocumented students are welcome to
who came to the United States as children and meet several guidelines may request
also eligible for work authorization. Deferred action is a use of prosecutorial discretion
does not provide lawful status.
official documentation, such as Employment Authorization (EAD), to the Admission
an unofficial and official transcripts from every institution attended.
prerequisite coursework prior to registration. To help transfer students with placement
placement@tacomacc.edu. Once received, the Placement Office will evaluate transcripts
for registration only and do not award the student credit and will not satisfy program
to: Student Homepage → Academic Records → View My Milestones
off at Enrollment Services or at their drop box located on the east side of Building 7.

@@@PAGE 11@@@
---LEFT---
Once received, official transcripts will be evaluated for transfer credit eligibility. Official
and the term of that registration has started. Approved credits may be applied toward
separate from milestone placement and will take additional time to complete.
For more information on submitting official transcripts and tracking transfer credit evaluation,
ntent
Costs & Funding
Student Financial Services
Phone: 253-566-5011
Email: sfs@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/tuition-payment/
Tuition
Current quarterly tuition and fee rates are available on the website. Tuition and fees
in cancellation of registration.
Tuition payments may be made:
• In-person: payments can be dropped off at the Cashier's Office located
• Online: with a VISA or MasterCard through ctcLink
• Automatic Payment Plan (NELNET): students who owe $200 or more in
enrollment, monthly payment plans with flexible payment options with
debit card payment. There are minimal costs to participate in this automatic
sign up for the automatic payment plan.
◦ Follow these simple steps to enroll in the payment plan: Log
Plans → click on NelNet Payment Plan → follow the onscreen
◦ Contact Nelnet Business Solutions at 1-800-609-8056 or
Fees
Fees paid by students include:
• Tuition fees, which are controlled by legislative action
• Course fees, which approved by the TCC Board of Trustee on an annual
2025-2026 Course Fees page.
• Student activity fees, which are voted approved by students through Student
• Facility fees, which are paid to support building that require local funds
support
• Public Safety/Parking fees, which are set by the college to support staffing
• Technology and Fitness Center fees, which are added via student vote to
• eLearning Fees, which fund online technologies for online, hybrid, and web-enhanced
Costs & Funding
Financial Aid
Phone: 253-566-5080
Email: faid@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/financial-aid/
Students have many options when it comes to paying for college. Students may apply
citizens and eligible non-citizens), or the WASFA (Washington Application for State Financial
to their immigration status). Eligible students may then receive financial aid. Financial
Applying for financial aid takes time. Deadlines are outlined on the website, and it is
for financial aid every school year. At TCC, the school year starts with the Fall quarter.
Basic eligibility requirements for financial aid are as follows. A student must:
• Be admitted to TCC as a regular student seeking an eligible college degree
• Have a high school diploma or GED or meet the Ability to Benefit (ABT)
• Be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen
• Provide a valid Social Security number
• Not in default on other student loans or own repayments on a grant
• Be making satisfactory academic progress as defined by the TCC satisfactory
Please note: financial aid is not available for Adult Basic Education classes, High School
still be eligible for other forms of financial support.
Costs & Funding
---RIGHT---
transcripts enter the evaluation queue after a student has registered for classes
degree or certificate requirements, depending on program guidelines. This process is
please visit the Transfer Credit Evaluation section of the TCC website.
are due approximately three weeks prior to the start of classes. Late payments may result
in Building 14 on the Tacoma campus or at the main office at the Gig Harbor campus.
quarterly tuition and fees may enroll in the automatic payment plan, which offers online
no interest. Payment methods include automatic bank payment (ACH) and credit card/
payment plan. Students with financial aid or coverage by a third party should not
into ctcLink Student Homepage → click on Financial Account tile → click on Payment
instructions for setting up NelNet account and payment plan.
the TCC Business Office at 253-4604311 or sfs@tacomacc.edu for more information.
basis and fund a course's equipment and supplies. For the 2025-2026 course fees, visit
Leadership
to build and are formally approved by Student Government as projects they want to
for public safety and to provide parking
support student computer facilities and provide equipment for use of the Fitness Center
courses and provide student technology support including a Help Desk
for financial aid through the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid; for U.S.
Aid; for undocumented students or those who do not qualify for federal aid due
aid programs include grants, work-study, student loans and scholarships.
advised to start the process at least six weeks before the deadline. Students must apply
or certificate
criteria. Call 253-566-6091 to schedule an appointment for ATB information
academic progress requirements
Completion, GED, Running Start, Fresh Start or Continuing Education. Students may

@@@PAGE 12@@@
---LEFT---
Other Financial Support to Pay for College
Phone: 253-566-5025
Email: thecenter@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/the-center
Students who have been in foster care in Washington state may be eligible for this
find out more. You can also visit the Passport to College website for more information:
Scholarships
Phone: 253-566-5003
Email: scholarships@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/scholarships-funding/scholarships
Scholarships are awarded for academic merit, financial need, athletic or artistic talent,
Each year over 300 scholarships are awarded to TCC students. Money is provided by
link for more information about TCC Foundation scholarships.
There are also external scholarships available to all TCC students. An information board
Workforce
Phone: 253-566-5188
Email: tccworkforce@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/scholarships-funding/workforce/index
Workforce Education Programs provide tuition, fees, books, and other funding, access
resource navigation support to students. Each funding program has different criteria
connect students with the program(s) best suited to provide the most support.
Workforce programs include Basic Food Employment and Training (BFET), Early Achievers
students seeking:
• Professional technical certificates and degrees and select transfer degrees
• Job skills training (specific classes needed to enhance employment such
• High School diploma or GED, English Language Acquisition classes, or pre-college
You may qualify if you...
• Are receiving or have received unemployment assistance in the last four
• Low income (we can help screen you)
• Receive Basic Food or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
• Need to upgrade skills to advance in your career
Costs & Funding
Waivers
Students who are sixty years old or older and are Washington state resident
28B.15.540 states that the student must be 60 years or older, limited to two courses
increasing credentials or salary increases.
State Employee Tuition Waiver
State employees can take up to two classes, not to exceed 10 credits, per quarter.
application.The cost is $5 per class plus applicable fees. State Employees will be manually
for classes earlier than the first instructional day will result in disqualification of the
capacity, even with instructor overload approval. Students who wish to use this waiver
Students using this waiver must complete the State Employee Space Available Tuition
academicforms/stateemployeetuitionwaiver.pdf) each quarter and submit the form to
SPRUCE Tuition Waiver
The SPRUCE program waives tuition of classes for unemployed/underemployed individuals
classes for the quarter enrolled. You must:
• be a Washington State resident
• be 21 years or older
• not have attended college or community college for the previous six months
• not be receiving or eligible to receive unemployment compensation
• have been unemployed or underemployed for the previous six months
• have a monthly household income at or below 200% Federal Poverty level
Costs & Funding
---RIGHT---
scholarship and grant. Contact The Center for Student Advocacy & Cultural Support to
www.wsac.wa.gov/passport-foster-youth
community involvement and fields of study. Unlike loans, they do not have to be repaid.
friends of the TCC Foundation to help students pay for tuition and fees. Use the website
listing scholarships is maintained in Building 14 on TCC's main campus.
to childcare assistance (through Washington’s Working Connections Childcare) and
and requirements, but TCC has made it easy to get started with one application to
Grant, Opportunity Grant, Worker Retraining, and WorkFirst and can support
as computer skills)
classes needed to prepare for a degree or certificate
years
assistance from Department of Social and Health Service (DSHS)
may qualify for a waiver of 70 percent of tuition on a space-available basis. RCW
per quarter, not enrollment generating, and not for students intending to use credits for
The waiver may not be used for selective entry programs which require a secondary
enrolled in classes starting the first instructional day of the quarter. Enrolling
tuition reduction. The State Employee waiver may not be used to exceed posted class
may not be placed on a waitlist.
Waiver (www.tacomacc.edu/attachments/academics-programs/enrollmentservices/
Enrollment Services.
on a space available basis. All of the requirements apply as of the first day of
(qualify for food stamps)

@@@PAGE 13@@@
---LEFT---
Veterans, Active Duty Military, and Reservist Services
Phone: 253-566-5081
Email: va@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/help/imaveteran
Tacoma Community College is approved for the education and training of veterans,
disabled veterans, eligible members of the select reserve, and active duty servicemembers
Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board's State Approving Agency (WTECB/SAA)
10, USC.
TCC does not and will not provide any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment
persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or admissions activities or in making
In accordance with Title 38 US Code 3679 subsection (e), this school adopts the following
(VA) Post 9/11 G.I. Bill® (Ch. 33) or Veteran Readiness & Employment (Ch. 31) benefits,
pending from the VA.
This school will not:
• Prevent the student's enrollment
• Assess a late fee
• Require student secure alternative or additional funding on any covered
institution due to the delayed disbursement of a payment to be provided
• Deny their access to any resources (access to classes, libraries, or other
bills to the institution
However, to qualify for this provision, such students may be required to:
• Produce proof of eligibility to the TCC Veterans Services Office by the first
• Provide written request to be certified
• Provide additional information needed to properly certify the enrollment
TCC who expect to receive Veterans Administration benefits must meet
• Veterans and family members using benefits must declare a program of
VA approved program of study
• Veterans and family members must complete the course work paid for.
received may be repaid
• Veterans and family members must notify Veterans Services when changing
• A dedicated veteran's counselor is located in the Counseling & Advising
• Veterans and family members must contact the Veteran Services Office
Benefits may be terminated for unsatisfactory progress or conduct. If terminated, benefits
that satisfactory progress and/or conduct will be sustained in the future. This can occur
study are approved by a Washington State Approving Agency for enrollment of those
Rights of Washington National Guard and Other Military Reserve Students Called to
A member of the Washington National Guard or any other military reserve component
exceeding thirty days to either active state service, as defined in RCW 38.040.010, or
• Withdraw from one or more courses for which tuition and fees have been
• Be given a grade of incomplete and be allowed to complete the course upon
incompletes
• Continue and complete the course for full credit
• Be entitled to make up the class, test, examination, laboratory, presentation,
Costs & Funding
Refund Policy
College procedures for the refund of tuition and fees to students in compliance with
• A student must complete the official withdrawal procedure to receive a
• A student dismissed from the college for disciplinary reasons is not eligible
• Instructional days are defined as days school is in session, not including
• Calendar days are defined as all days of the month, not just instructional
Effective Fall 2023, refunds will be made according to the following schedule for Fall,
• Drops up to the sixth instructional day of the quarter – 100%.
• Drops/Withdrawals from the sixth through the twentieth calendar day
• Withdrawal after the 20th calendar day of the quarter – 0%
Summer quarter courses, courses which do not follow the regular college calendar,
Enrollment Services at 253-566-5325 for the related refund dates.
---RIGHT---
dependents of deceased service members, MIA and POW, 100% total or permanent
and dependents. Selected programs of study at TCC are approved by the
for enrollment of those eligible to receive benefits under Title 38 and Title
based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollment or financial aid to any
decisions regarding the award of student financial assistance.
additional provisions for any students using U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
or Dependent Education Assistance (Ch. 35) while payment to the institution is
individual because of the individual's inability to meet their financial obligations to the
by the Secretary under Chapter 31, 33, or 35
institutional facilities) available to other students who have satisfied their tuition and fee
day of class
as described in other institutional policies Veterans and family members attending
three minimum standard requirements, in addition to those required by the college
study or degree objective and will be paid only for those classes that apply toward the
Grades of ‘U’ or ‘W’ may result in overpayment; this means some or all the benefits
classes, withdrawing from the college or when deciding to stop attending classes
Center, Bldg. 7, to support veterans and their spouses
in writing if they no longer want to use their VA Education Benefits
may be reinstated by a certifying official upon establishing a reasonable likelihood
only after all other admission requirements have been met. Selected programs of
eligible for benefits under Title 28 and Title 10, U.S. Code
Service (RCW 28B.10.270)
who is a student at an institution of higher education and who is ordered for a period
to federal active military service has the following rights:
paid that are attributable to the courses
release from active duty under the institution’s standard practice for completion of
or event without prejudice to the final course grade or evaluation
state statutes.
refund
for a refund
weekends and scheduled holidays
days
Winter, and Spring:
of the quarter – 50%.
early/late starting courses, and short courses have prorated refund periods. Contact

@@@PAGE 14@@@
---LEFT---
Continuing Education Non-Credit Class Cancellation and Refund
TCC reserves the right to change, reschedule and cancel non-credit classes as needed,
and low enrollment.
Payment for all non-credit classes is payable at the time of enrollment.
• Student-initiated withdrawal: If a student elects to withdraw from a class,
continuingeducation@tacomacc.edu. If the request is made at least five
• College initiated cancellation: If TCC initiates a class cancellation, a full
• Low enrollment cancellations: Non-credit classes are dependent upon
start date if that enrollment number is not met.
• Refunds: Students should allow three to four weeks for processing of refunds.
Programs to Prepare for College
Phone: 253-566-5144
Email: basicskills@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/basic-education
The Basic Education for Adults (BEdA) department is an affordable and supported
improve their basic reading, writing, math, conversation, and employment skills. BEdA
Transitional Studies Navigators and Advisors. Programs include English as a Second Language,
skills programs, and programs designed for college-bound and Career Training participants.
Schedules include both day and evening classes. Students between the ages of 16-18
eligible for federally funded Adult Basic Skills services. Before enrolling, students are
Tuition for Basic Skills classes is $25 per quarter plus $1 per credit for classes; some
qualified students through one of our Workforce Education programs.
Adult Basic Education
Adult Basic Education (ABE) courses are designed for adults already proficient in the
writing, and mathematics skills. The contextualized courses are designed to provide
prepare for the high school completion exam (currently Washington State uses the GED®),
to post-secondary education and the professional world.
Integrated Basic Education and Skills Training
Integrated Basic Education Skills and Training (I-BEST) Programs allow you to build
same time. With I-BEST, you are able to start on a career pathway earlier. I-BEST offers
training instructor to cover material that is relevant to the career while you are improving
a program-specific navigator to help them as they move forward on their educational
College and Career Pathway Academy
College and Career Pathway Academy (CCPA) is one of TCC's Exploratory Learning
career options while continuing to build reading, writing, and research skills. In this learning
and Introduction to Communication Studies (CMST& 101). You will have two professors
English Language Acquisition
English Language Acquisition (ELA) courses are offered to help immigrants and refugees
and participate as members of the community.
Important Notes About Eligibility
• If you are in this country on a student (F, M) visa, you are not eligible
International Program for information on enrolling in the International
• If you are in this country as a “nannie” or “au pair” on a study exchange
Education for Adults. Please review our Admission Process page.
• NOTE: B-1, B-2, C, D, N, O-2, P, Q, R S, TC, TN visa holders should confirm
their immigration status or visa eligibility.
Register for Classes
Enrollment Services
Phone: 253-566-5011
Email: admissions@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/enrollmentservices/
---RIGHT---
Policy
for reasons including but not limited to inclement weather, instructor-related issues,
a request must be made before a refund is issued. Requests can be sent via email to
calendar days before the first day of class, the class fee will be returned to the student.
refund will be issued. Efforts will be made to notify all registered students.
a minimum student enrollment number and are cancelled three days prior to the class
Refund checks will be mailed to the address students have on file.
pathway to college. BEdA offers a variety of programs for individuals who wish to
students receive comprehensive career pathway planning and navigation support from
Adult Basic Education, and High School Completion, vocationally focused basic
must obtain formal high school releases. Individuals with F-1, M-1, and J-1 visas are not
required to attend an information session and complete a skills assessment.
courses may charge additional material fees. Tuition assistance may be available for
English language and not enrolled in high school who wish to improve their basic reading,
students an opportunity to earn high school credits towards a HS+ diploma and/or
as well as build the academic habits and skills necessary for successful transition
skills to college level and earn a college-level professional/technical certificate at the
a team-teacher learning community. Your English instructor works with your career
your reading and writing skills. In addition, I-BEST students receive the support of
pathway.
Communities and is designed to help students begin their college pathway and explore
community you will take a pre-college English course, College Success (COL 101),
who will connect the content from these courses and provide wraparound support.
develop communication skills, function effectively in jobs, pursue a higher degree,
to participate in publicly (state and federal) funded adult education. Contact TCC’s
Program.
(J-1) visa, you are required to participate in college-level academic classes, not in Basic
with the Department of Homeland Security that attending our program will not affect

@@@PAGE 15@@@
---LEFT---
Registration Appointments
Enrollment appointments are the date and time when registration opens for a student.
transfer credits. If students have completed courses at other institutions, up to 60 credits
as required by state law and local TCC policy. Per RCW 28B.15.624, veterans may enroll
spouses receiving veteran education benefits also receive priority enrollment appointments.
register on the final day of enrollment for current students. Returning students should
Adding a Class
Students may add a class from the start of their enrollment appointment through the
on the third instructional day, students can obtain permission codes from instructors
Late Add Petition to Enrollment Services. Petitions will only be considered for students
the student is subject to a $36.50 per class late add/reinstatement fee. The petition process
Register for Classes
Waitlists
Some classes have automated waitlists. The availability and length of a waitlist varies.
students attempt to register for full classes that have waitlists, they are offered the opportunity
first-served basis. Students can be on a total of no more than two waitlists at a time.
As other students drop these classes, waitlisted students are automatically registered
students are not registered into available class openings if doing so will result in exceeding
classes of the same course. Students may set up a Swap in ctcLink Student Center to avoid
Student Center to see if they have been moved from the waitlist to enrolled in the class.
The waitlist process runs through the end of the second instructional day of the quarter.
contact the instructor to see if the instructor will permit enrollment. If the student receives
enroll in the class. Students with financial holds will not progress off of waitlists into
hold for further information regarding lifting the hold once the financial obligation is
Register for Classes
Dropping a Class
Students may drop a class through the 10th instructional day of the quarter through
Starting on the 11th instructional day through 60th calendar day, students can withdraw
transcript indicating official withdrawal from the class. Students may not drop classes
grade of ‘WI’ or any other appropriate letter grade based on the syllabus. Students who
their classes. The consequences of dropping or withdrawing from a class vary depending
have regarding financial aid awards, veteran benefits, or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
proceeding with withdrawal from one or more classes.
Drop for Non-Payment
Failure to pay tuition by the date listed in the Academic Calendar will result in the
through Financial Aid, Veterans, or other third-party providers will have a hold placed
their ctcLink Student Homepage, the student should email the office handling their assistance:
▪ Financial Aid: faid@tacomacc.edu
▪ Veterans Office: va@tacomacc.edu
▪ Third-Party Payments: sfs@tacomacc. edu
Drop for Non-Attendance
Students who fail to attend initial class sessions and fail to make arrangements with
Register for Classes
Medical & Military Withdrawals
Medical withdrawals may be granted in cases where a student experiences serious
Written documentation from a medical provider must be provided at the time petitions
that immediately follows the quarter in question. (For example, petitions for Winter quarter
will not be granted for requests received after the quarter in question has ended. Students
Military Withdrawals
Military withdrawals may be granted for a student who is called up for active-duty
Copy of military orders must be provided at the time petitions are submitted. Petitions
the quarter in question. (For example, petitions for Winter quarter must be submitted
requests received after the quarter in question has ended.
Administrative Withdrawals
Administrative withdrawals are initiated by the college to withdraw students for
Students who are administratively withdrawn for disciplinary reasons are not eligible
---RIGHT---
Appointments are determined by the number of credits completed at TCC and/or
of those courses can be counted. Priority enrollment appointments are assigned
on the day prior to the first day of currently enrolled student registration. Veteran's
Returning students who have not attended TCC within the past year may
email registrar@tacomacc.edu to set up their appointment time.
second instructional day of the quarter using their ctcLink Student Homepage. Beginning
to add a class. After the 10th instructional day of the quarter, the student must submit a
who were in attendance of the class prior to the 10th day of the quarter. If approved,
includes verification by the instructor of the student’s first date of attendance
The length of a waitlist for a class is determined by the department/program. When
to be placed on a waitlist. Students are placed on the waitlist on a first-come,
Once a class has an active waitlist, all regular registration activity for that class stops.
into available class openings in the order they were placed on the waitlist. Waitlisted
their Maximum Total Units (usually 19 credits) or being enrolled in two different
these limitations. It is the student’s responsibility to track their status in the ctcLink
Students who have not been enrolled into a class by this point are encouraged to
permission, they are advised to request a permission code from the instructor to
classes until the hold is lifted. Students should contact the department that placed the
satisfied.
their ctcLink Student Center. These classes will not appear on the student’s transcript.
from a class using the ctcLink Student Homepage. A grade of ‘W’ will appear on the
after the 60th calendar day of the quarter. After this date, an instructor may grant a
register for a quarter but do not attend classes are responsible for officially dropping
on both the time frame in which the drop occurs and obligations the student may
(USCIS) status. Students are advised to review possible consequences before
student being dropped from all of their classes. Students receiving financial assistance
on classes to prevent drop for non-payment. If a student does not see the hold listed in
their instructors for excused absences may be dropped by the instructor.
unanticipated illnesses. Petition forms are available at Enrollment Services in Bldg. 7.
are submitted. Petitions must be submitted no later than the last day of the quarter
must be submitted no later than the last day of Spring quarter.) Refunds, however,
are limited to one medical refund petition each academic year.
military service. Petition forms are available online or at Enrollment Services in Bldg. 7.
must be submitted no later than the last day of the quarter that immediately follows
no later than the last day of Spring quarter.) Refunds, however, will not be granted for
disciplinary reasons, failure to meet academic standards, or other exceptional causes.
for tuition refunds. (See Refund Policy.)

@@@PAGE 16@@@
---LEFT---
Register for Classes
Student Status
STATUS DEFINITION
FULL-TIME STUDENT A student registered for 12 or more credits in a given quarter.
PART-TIME STUDENT A student registered for fewer than 12 credits in a given
AUDITING STUDENT A student who registers for a class for no credit and pays
NON-DEGREE SEEKING A student attending TCC for purposes other than to obtain
STUDENT for five credits or fewer per quarter and are self-advised.
FIRST-YEAR STUDENT A student who has earned fewer than 45 college-level credits.
SECOND-YEAR
A student who has earned 45 or more college-level credits.
STUDENT
Institutional Learning Outcomes
Institutional Learning Outcomes (ILOs) are the skills, knowledge, attitudes, and qualities
and demonstrate, in support of their personal, professional, and academic success.
ILO assessment measures how the combined efforts of the curricular, co-curricular, and
vision, and strategic plan.
Core of Knowledge
Apply knowledge to academic and professional endeavors, as applicable.
• Use the vocabularies and methods of the fields of communication, quantitative
analytical, practical, or creative tasks; and/or
• Describe the core theories and practices of a discipline/vocation/industry
solve problems.
Career Readiness
Identify personal interests, strengths, values, and skills that will inform intentional
ethics and self-advocacy.
Communication
Use written, verbal, nonverbal, and digital communication to increase knowledge of
causes.
Critical Thinking
Analyze and summarize complex information, create an argument that seeks and considers
ask questions, form opinions, formulate theses or hypotheses, or solve problems.
Information Literacy
Evaluate, use, and produce information ethically and effectively for a wide range of
of information is influenced by power and privilege.
Digital Literacy
Use digital and emerging technologies ethically and effectively to learn, work, and navigate
Social Justice
Interact productively and equitably with others in diverse local, national, and global
contemporary systemic inequalities.
Social Responsibility and Sustainability
Demonstrate knowledge of one's place within interconnected natural and human
sustainability through information and action.
Instructional Formats
Classes at Tacoma Community College are offered in a variety of formats. Students can
---RIGHT---
quarter.
the standard tuition and fees for the class.
a degree or certificate. Non-degree seeking students are restricted to registration
that students who complete a learning experience at TCC are expected to develop
non-curricular learning activities at TCC contributes to the fulfillment of our mission,
reasoning, social science, natural science, and the humanities to complete
and apply the tools, technologies, and methods of that field to answer questions or
career decision-making and enhance decision-making processes regarding professional
diverse perspectives, express ideas, persuade audiences, and/or advocate for ideas or
marginalized perspectives, and use reasoning and evidence to draw conclusions,
purposes and critically examine how the production, publication, accessibility, and value
professional and academic fields of study.
communities; address social justice issues based on awareness of historical and
systems, evaluate the social and environmental impacts of one's choices, and advance
find the format of an individual class in the quarterly class schedule.

@@@PAGE 17@@@
---LEFT---
FORMAT DEFINITION
In Person A face-to-face class with scheduled in person meeting times which does
Web
A face-to-face class with scheduled in person meeting times which requires
Enhanced
A class that combines online learning with in person classroom instruction.
Hybrid
meetings on the TCC campus as well as work online.
A class in which all required instruction occurs using web-based tools
Online
activities.
Online w/ In
A class in which required instruction occurs using web-based tools without
Person
activities such as assessment, exam, and/or orientation. The expectation
Activities
Online An online class where virtual meetings are held at specific days and
Scheduled activities.
Online
Scheduled An online class where virtual meetings are held at specific days and
w/ In Person activities such as assessment, exam, and/or orientation. The expectation
Activities
One-to-one instruction in which a student meets individually with an
Independent instruction mode may include internships, personalized tutoring, or
Study staff to develop individualized learning agreements and/or learning
activities.
Grades
Tacoma Community College uses the following grading system and grade-point values
to use the plus/minus grading option for any given class.
GRADE
GRADE DESCRIPTION
POINTS
A 4.0
A- 3.7
B+ 3.3
B 3.0
B- 2.7
C+ 2.3
C 2.0
C- 1.7
D+ 1.3
D 1.0
E 0.0 Not considered passing. No credit is earned.
In Progress: used for students enrolled in competency-based,
IP N/A students who remain enrolled and are demonstrating progress
course two times. One the third attempt the student is not eligible
W N/A Withdrawal: student initiated official withdrawal. May withdrawal
Incomplete: temporary grade granted at the discretion of the
has an agreed upon plan to finish remaining coursework. Requires
I N/A
than the last day of instruction. The incomplete grade converts
there are extenuating circumstances, and an extension is agreed
Satisfactory: awarded if the student performed at the level of
S N/A
(Credit only, no grade point)
Unsatisfactory: awarded if the student performed at the level
U N/A
no grade point)
N N/A Audit: no grade awarded. Student experience course materials
Grades A, B, C, D, and S are considered passing for Financial Aid purposes.
*Summer quarter courses and courses which do not follow the regular college calendar
dates.
Grades
---RIGHT---
CTCLINK
CODE
not require the use of web-based tools. P
the use of web-based tools. WE
Students are required to attend a reduced number of class
HY
without set meeting days or times. There are no required in-person
OA
set meeting days or times. Class requires several in-person
OB
of in-person activities is included in class notes.
times using internet/web-based tools. There are no required in-person
OS
times using internet/web-based tools. Class requires several in-person
OW
of in-person activities is included in class notes.
instructor according to a mutually agreed upon schedule and plan. This
specialized content classes where students collaborate with faculty or
IS
outcomes. May also include practicums, co-ops, or service learning
for reporting attainment of course learning outcomes. Faculty may or may not choose
federally funded Basic Education for Adults (BEdA) programming. May be awarded to
toward completion of course competencies. Students may earn an IP in the same
for an IP and instead must earn a letter grade.
through the 60th calendar day for the quarter*.
instructor when the student has completed more than 60% of the course material and
completion and recording of the Incomplete Grade Agreement in place no later
to the earned grade (A-E) at the end of the one quarter (not counting summer) unless
upon by the instructor and student.
C or higher. May request S/U option through 60th calendar day of the quarter*.
of C- or below. May request through the 60th calendar day of the quarter*. (No credit,
but are not assessed.
will have pro-rated withdrawal periods. Contract Registration and Records for these

@@@PAGE 18@@@
---LEFT---
Grade Point Average Explained
Your Grade Point Average (GPA) is calculated by multiplying the number of credits
course (see Grading System for letter grade to grade point equivalencies). Add those
the applicable courses to get your GPA.
Cumulative GPA
• Applicable courses: All courses taken at TCC.
• Your Cumulative GPA includes all of the coursework you have completed
DOES NOT include any transfer or test credit.
• Your Cumulative GPA is also used to calculate Dean's List and Graduation
• You can find your Cumulative GPA on your Official and Unofficial Transcripts.
Degree/Certificate GPA
• Applicable courses: All courses that are applied to the degree or certificate.
• Your Degree/Certificate GPA includes all of the coursework that is applied
to a degree/certificate, but it may include coursework at TCC, transfer
guidelines about what coursework may or may not be applied to that credential.
• You can find your Degree/Certificate GPA on your Academic Advisement
Quarterly GPA
• Same as Cumulative GPA, but only includes coursework from a single quarter
• Your Quarterly GPA is primarily used for determining Dean's List eligibility
Grades
Grade-Related Policies
Below is a brief description of grade-related policies. For a list of all TCC policies with
about/policies/index
Academic Progress
The purpose of the Academic Progress policy is to quickly identify and inform students
students with campus resources so that they can improve their academic success. Grades
Academic Concern, Alert, or Intervention will be informed of their status and what actions
of Enrollment will notify students who fall below a 2.0 quarterly GPA of an Advisement
Advisor to remove the Concern and Alert holds. Students will need to meet wtih the
Academic Standing when they earn a quarterly GPA of 2.0 or higher.
Academic Renewal
TCC understands that students may experience difficulty with academic performance
them from achieving their educational and career goals. In an effort to reduce the
allows students to petition for Academic Renewal. Academic Renewal may be exercised
the student’s grade point average and credits. The student may not elect to retain
coursework that has applied towards a degree or certificate posted to the student’s
Course Challenge
A student enrolled for five or more credit hours may earn additional credit hours in
developed a challenge examination. Students who successfully challenge a course will
Course Repeat
A student may take a course for a total of three attempts. Attempts are defined as earning
day. Courses repeated will remain on a student’s transcript with a repeat notation. When
count towards general degree requirements and the grade is excluded from the student’s
course more than once may become ineligible for federal or state financial aid, per
receive compensation for repeating a course they have previously passed.
Final Grade Appeal
Students who believe a final course grade has been awarded incorrectly or in error,
procedure is available on the Policies page of the college website.
Grade Change
Students requesting a course grade change must contact their instructors. Instructors
Services. Grade changes must be made within two quarters (excluding summer) after
grade changes are allowed, unless the instructor documents that the original grade
changed only once.
Honors
Celebrating excellence in students’ academic performance and achievement is an integral
• Dean's List: This is awarded on a quarterly basis to students who earn a
---RIGHT---
for each applicable course by the numeric value of the grade you received for that
results together for all applicable courses, then divide by the total number of credits of
at TCC, including college-level and below-college-level courses. Your Cumulative GPA
Honors.
to that specific degree or certificate. Only college-level coursework may be applied
credit, and/or test credit. Please be aware that some degrees/certificates have specific
Report (AAR) in the ctcLink Student Center.
at TCC.
and Academic Concern, Alert, and/or Intervention.
links to full policy language, please visit our website at: https://www.tacomacc.edu/
whose quarterly grade point average (GPA) falls below a 2.0 and then connect these
are posted at the end of the quarter as per the Academic Calendar. A student on
are required within two weeks of final grades being posted. The office of the Dean
hold that will be placed on their account. Students will need to meet with an Academic
Dean of Enrollment to remove the Academic Intervention hold. Students return to Good
due to a variety of circumstances, and their resulting academic record prohibits
impact of past performance on the student’s ability to achieve their goals, the College
only once. All course work taken prior to the renewal quarter will be removed from
individual courses and set aside other courses. Academic Renewal cannot be used for
transcript.
some courses by a challenge examination, provided by the department/discipline has
receive an “S” grade.
a grade in a course or withdrawing from the course on or after the 11th instructional
a course is repeated, the credits of the enrollment(s) with the lower grade no longer
term and cumulative grade point average. Students who retake a previously passed
respective guidelines. Students who receive veteran benefits cannot be certified for or
can address the discrepancy by following the Final Course Grade Appeal Process. The
approve grade change requests by submitting grade change forms to Enrollment
the quarter in which the student was registered for the course. After two quarters, no
was an error, and the division dean signs an approval. Grades for specific courses can be
part of creating meaningful learning and strengthening student success.
quarterly grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 or higher.

@@@PAGE 19@@@
---LEFT---
• Graduation with High Honors: This is awarded to students who graduate
• Graduation with Honors: This is awarded to students who graduate with
Grades
Records Retention for Grades & Transcripts
Tacoma Community College complies with the Washington State Community and Technical
DESCRIPTION OF RECORDS
Transcripts (Permanent Student Records)
Records documenting the official academic performance of individual students at the
college.
Includes, but is not limited to:
• Courses taken;
• Final grades and honors received (including any grade changes);
• Transfer and total credits;
• Major degrees and certificates received;
• Official name changes.
Includes this information maintained in database systems.
Note: In the event of the college ceasing to exist, the permanent student records are
Achievement Council in accordance with RCW 28B.85.130.
Graduation Requirements
Requirements for All Credentials
In order to be awarded a credential from Tacoma Community College, a student must
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that
• A minimum of 25% of the total applicable credits for the specific credential
Multiple Credentials
Students may be awarded multiple credentials for which they have fulfilled the curricular
Changing Credential Requirements
In order to keep programs and coursework relevant, curricular and non-curricular
change after a student enrolls at Tacoma Community College, TCC will adhere to the
If the credential is completed within five years, the student who initially declares the
in the coursework specific to the credential at TCC may graduate under the provisions
Students with extenuating circumstances may petition to extend this time period if longer
Students may be required to take courses added to the credential requirements that
TCC encourages all students to fulfill the credential requirements in effect at the time
Students who do not complete the credential requirements within five years must fulfill
Graduation and Commencement
Credentials are conferred at the end of each quarter. Commencement ceremonies are
the current academic year are invited to participate in the June Commencement.
Students who are expected to complete their credential in summer may participate in
Transferring from TCC
TCC's credit courses fall into three general categories: College Transfer, Career Training,
Important Facts about Transferring Credit from TCC
• Courses that fulfill requirements for university transfer degrees are generally
• General education courses that are taken to meet requirements for career
• Courses that are specific to career training programs are not transferable
acceptance of those courses, exists between TCC and the other institution.
• Courses included in TCC's Transitional Studies program numbered below
• Each baccalaureate institution maintains its own policies on acceptance
with the transferability of courses, TCC is not responsible for acceptance
• General acceptance of transfer credits is not the same as direct course
them directly equivalent to their own courses or count them as meeting
Need a Transcript to transfer credits?
Transfer credits to another institution by ordering official transcripts from
enrollmentservices/studentrecords/transcript-request
Transferring from TCC
---RIGHT---
with a cumulative GPA of 3.7 or higher.
a cumulative GPA of 3.5 to 3.69.
College Retention Schedule for the retention of student grades and transcript.
RETENTION AND DISPOSITION ACTION
Retain for life of college
then Transfer to Student Achievement Council
for permanent retention.
to be transferred to Student
meet the following requirements:
is applied to the credential
must be earned at Tacoma Community College
requirements.
credential requirements are regularly updated. In the event that degree requirements
following policy:
credential (as noted by assignment into the credential plan stack in ctcLink) and enrolls
of the TCC credential in effect when they originally declared the credential.
than five years is required
are reflective of critical industry changes or accreditation requirements
of their most recent enrollment as those reflect the best practices for the credential
the requirements in effect when they graduate.
held annually at the end of spring quarter. All students who have earned credentials in
commencement.
and Transitional Studies
transferable to four-year colleges and universities (baccalaureate institutions)
training degrees are transferable.
to bachelors' institutions unless a specific articulation agreement, providing for
100, are not considered college-level and do not transfer.
of credits for transfer. While TCC advisors make a good faith effort to assist students
of credits and courses at other institutions.
equivalency. Baccalaureate institutions may accept credits for transfer but not consider
specific requirements at their institutions.
Enrollment Services: www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/

@@@PAGE 20@@@
---LEFT---
Transfer Equivalency Guides
Equivalency guides are created to help students transfer institutions. They are a great
below can also indicate what requirements those courses meet. While not all universities
Community College students frequently transfer to that will assist you.
See the TCC website for more information: www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/enrollmentservices/transfertools/
transfer_credits_to_another_institution
Transferring from TCC
Transfer Among Washington Community and Technical
Washington State Community and Technical Colleges have adopted an Inter-College
requirements at one community or technical college to another. This policy does not
See the full policy on this website: www.sbctc.edu/resources/documents/colleges-staff/programs-services/transfer/inter-college-reciprocity-policy-2012.pdf
Running Start & High School Completion
Phone: 253-566-6061
Email: runstart@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/college-high-school/runningstart
Running Start is a partnership between the Washington State community college system
and seniors may enroll in TCC courses tuition-free (other costs apply).
College credits earned through Running Start apply toward high school graduation and
To be admitted to Tacoma Community College's Running Start program, a student must:
• Be enrolled in a public high school. Private school students can have dual
Home-schooled students will either enroll through their local public high
• Be a junior or senior according to their high school.
• Display college-level English skills. College-level Math placement is not
sciences courses using Running Start must place at college level math.
• NOTE: High school graduation requirements are established by the high
TCC courses will apply toward graduation.
• NOTE: Students with high school grade-point-averages of less than 2.50
in the program. Students at Tacoma Community College must maintain a
they are placed on a series of warning, probation, and then suspension from
Running Start & High School Completion
TCC in the High School
Email: Patrick Brown, Dean for Enrollment and Student Success pbrown@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/college-high-school/tccinhighschool
The TCC in the High School program offers college credit for select courses taught
who work closely with TCC faculty to ensure that the high school course is equivalent
Running Start & High School Completion
Fresh Start
Phone: 253-566-5086
Email: freshstart@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/freshstart
Fresh Start is a re-engagement program for youth ages 16-21 years who want to earn
Start Program covers tuition and fees, as well as books for eligible students. Students
Running Start & High School Completion
High School +
Phone: 253-566-5144
Email: basicskills@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/basic-education
High School+ is a high school completion option which allows you to earn your high school
classes to fulfill any remaining credits left to receive your high school diploma. This comprehensive
and classes to complete high school requirements. Adults age 18 and over are eligible
you start with Fresh Start.
High School+ students earn English credits through our ABE Reading & Writing
Environmental Science, etc. Students earn high school math credits via our ABE math
History, etc.), students may take a Portfolio course that allows them to work on individualized
Running Start & High School Completion
---RIGHT---
tool to see how courses and credits can transfer to a specific university. The guides
have transfer guides available, here are online guides from schools that Tacoma
Colleges
Reciprocity Policy designed to help students transfer courses that meet distribution
address transfer of courses between two-year and four-year colleges.
and Washington’s public-school districts through which eligible high school juniors
satisfy college requirements (within guidelines of the program).
enrollment at both private and public high schools for access to Running Start classes.
school or school district.
required for admission to the program. However, students who plan to enroll in math or
school. Each quarter, students meet with their high school counselor to identify how
are admitted but may be advised to enroll in a college success course their first quarter
GPA of 2.0 or above and complete all courses. If a student falls below academic standard,
the program.
in participating high schools. All program instructors are qualified high school teachers
to a college-level course.
a high school diploma and/or associate degree at Tacoma Community College. The Fresh
in the Fresh Start Program will experience a variety of wraparound support services.
credits through our Adult Basic Education (ABE) classes. You'll take the necessary
program includes high school transcript review, credit for life experiences,
to participate in High School+. However, if you are under 21, it is recommended that
courses. These courses are contextualized to various subjects such as US History,
courses. To cover additional credit areas (Health, Physical Education, Washington State
projects such as using life experiences towards high school credits.

@@@PAGE 21@@@
---LEFT---
GED
GED® stands for General Educational Development. It is a series of four tests that measure
school equivalent knowledge and skills. Most employers and colleges, including TCC,
the minimum passing scores.
Although TCC does not offer official GED® Preparation courses, BEdA classes will
take GED® support classes at TCC, you will also be given access to GED® Academy, which
through the GED® testing service. To find out more about GED® testing, visit the GED®
International Programs
Phone: 253-566-5190
Email: international@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/international/
TCC welcomes you to be a part of our international student family. Come see what
which embraces cultures from all over the world. We love our international students,
programs office on the second floor of Building 11 at the Tacoma campus. Employees
academic advising, placement with a homestay family, and provide you with immigration
environment.
Most of you will want to continue your studies at another college or university upon
choose from including: Arizona State University, Gonzaga University, the University
full list of our university transfer partners on the TCC website.
We welcome you to make TCC your home away from home. We look forward to helping
International Programs
English for Academic Purposes (EAP)
The EAP Program provides a strong basis in written and spoken English for international
variety of classes designed not only to improve English language and study skills, but
The EAP Program provides six levels of instruction, from beginning through advanced,
and Discussion/American Culture. Each level takes one quarter (approximately
admitted to determine their level.
Student Support Services
Phone: 360-504-6357
Email: access@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/access-services/access_services
Access Services works to provide reasonable accommodations and support services
Rehabilitation Act. We support the social and identity models of disability, celebrating
and equitable opportunities in the classroom while promoting the use of Universal Design
Campus Public Safety
Phone: 253-566-5111
Email: tccsecurity@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/campus-services/campus-safety
TCC’s Public Safety Department's mission is to provide a safe and healthy educational
for:
• Enforcement of Law and Policies
• Patrol of campus
• Investigations
• Security Escorts
• Educational Programs
• Lost and Found
• Student IDs
• Parking Permits
Students and staff are encouraged to report any unusual campus incidents by calling
Career Center
Phone: 253-566-5191
Email: nwilkerson@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/career_center
---RIGHT---
achievement in five major areas of high school education. Passing indicates high-
accept GED® certificates. Some colleges and professions will require higher scores than
help prepare you for the reading, writing and math portions of the GED® exams. If you
will give additional free practice material. Additional preparation is available online
website.
being an international Titan is all about! You will find a warm and friendly environment
and we are here to help you during your journey with us. You can find the international
in the international office are here to help you with your application, course registration,
advice. These services are all designed to help you become comfortable in your new
finishing your degree at TCC. We have over 20 direct transfer agreements for you to
of Washington–Tacoma, Washington State University, and many more. You can find the
you achieve your educational goals and dreams!
students looking to study in the United States. The EAP program offers a wide
also to prepare students for the U.S. college classroom.
within the areas of Grammar/Speaking, Reading/Writing, Pronunciation/Conversation
three months) to complete. Students will take an English placement test after being
for students with disabilities in accordance with the A.D.A. and Section 504 of the
disability as an integral part of diversity on our campus. Our goal is to provide access
in our classrooms and beyond.
and working environment for students and employees. The department is responsible
253-566-5111.

@@@PAGE 22@@@
---LEFT---
The Career Center, located in Bldg. 7, offers extensive resources to assist students in
• Individual career assessment to explore interests, identify personal strengths
• Access to a Career Coach to help match students with TCC education pathways
• Washington Occupational Information Services (WOIS), a system providing
Washington State
• Catalogs for colleges and universities; contacts for Washington schools
• Assistance in finding full-time, part-time, temporary and seasonal employment
• Assistance with job-search skills, including resume assistance and interviewing
• Internships and volunteer opportunities
Counseling Center
Phone: 253-566-5122
Email: tccpersonalcounseling@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/life-resources/counseling
We offer free, confidential, short-term counseling to currently enrolled students. We
develop new ways of addressing your needs. Many students seek us out to receive:
• Personal counseling
• Career counseling
• Counseling support for veterans and military affiliated students
• Substance use and recovery support
• Resources and referrals
• Human Development / College Success courses
Educational Talent Search
Phone: 253-566-5110
Email: talentsearch@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/educational_talent_search
Educational Talent Search (ETS) is a federally funded TRIO program hosted by TCC. The
first-generation backgrounds within specific target schools in Tacoma Public School
The program provides academic, career, and financial advising and support to its participants
complete their postsecondary education. The program publicizes the availability of financial
ETS project contributes to the college’s commitment to inspire equity in the lives of
celebration of success within our local communities as ETS students pursue and succeed
The Center for Student Advocacy and Cultural Support
Phone: 253-566-5025
Email: thecenter@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/the-center
The Center for Student Advocacy and Cultural Support provides comprehensive
disadvantaged, or have disabilities. Our goal is to promote access, academic persistence,
students stay in school and achieve their academic goals, including providing assistance
Student Support Services
Academic Support Services
Phone: 253-566-6091
Email: advising@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/advising/
Academic Advisors assist student with the planning and completion of classes schedules
academic advisors each quarter to track their educational progress.
Learning Innovation / Information Commons
Phone: 253-566-5176
Email: support@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/elearning/information_commons
---RIGHT---
making career and educational decisions including:
and match skills with career opportunities
and careers
access to accurate, up-to-date occupational and educational information specific to
techniques
are here to discuss any concerns you may be experiencing, and we work with you to
ETS program identifies and assists middle and high school students from low-income,
District to better understand their educational opportunities and options.
and encourages them to graduate from high school and continue on to and
aid and assists participants with navigating the postsecondary entry process.
our pre-college community by providing outreach and support services that lead to the
in higher education.
programs and services for all students who may be: first generation, economically
and achievement within a diverse student body. Our services are designed to help
in transferring to four-year institutions.
consistent with their educational goals. Students are encouraged to meet with their

@@@PAGE 23@@@
---LEFT---
TCC’s Learning Innovation department / Information Commons provides online learning
on campus. We also provide laptop and equipment checkout and media production
innovative student workspaces in the Information Commons, Bldg. 16, include a computer
study, collaborate, create, and thrive in a contemporary learning environment.
We also provide in-person and online support for students taking online, hybrid, and
learning technologies, please reach out to our support team.
Library
Phone: 253-566-5134
Email: library@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://tacomacc.libguides.com/TCCLibrary
The TCC Library is here to help you with research! Maybe you’re confused about how
librarians can help you with all of those needs by providing individual assistance for research
in the library’s research databases or navigate our print book, ebook, and textbook reserve
in the TCC Archives and online. Visit the Library’s Research Desk during open hours
Bookstore
Phone: 253-566-6085
Email: bookstore@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/campus-services/bookstore
New and used textbooks for TCC courses may be purchased in the bookstore, located
are also available. Anyone can place special book order through the bookstore. Students
online store also provides an assortment of clothing, supplies, TCC imprinted items,
Convenience Store, located inside the bookstore. Orders can be shipped or picked up
Titan Cafe
Phone: 253-566-6023
Email: rseverns@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/campus-services/campus-dining
The Titan Cafe is located in Bldg. 11 and offers a variety of beverages, grab and go food
before class.
Media Production
Phone: 253-460-3965
Email: support@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/elearning/multimedia_production
Ever wonder how your favorite online content creators make professional quality
exciting media products? TCC's Media Production team is here to help you create! Our
video cameras, a sound booth, and a massive "green screen" wall. Our team of media
class or student group project, from the idea phase to recording and hosting your finished
software, while being creative and collaborating with your peers. No experience needed.
The Studio is located in Building 16, Room 119.
Placement
Email: placement@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/course_placement/placement_testing
Placement helps students assess their skills to ensure they are able to engage with course
can complete their math and English placements by submitting documents, using TCC’s
Student Support Services
Student Learning Centers
Email: wryder@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/tutoring_centers/supplemental-instruction
If you are in a course that many students find difficult, you might have a Supplemental
• Are in your courses with you to keep up with the content.
• Will hold weekly guided study sessions where you can improve your understanding
• Will seek to make your studying process more fun as well as more effective.
---RIGHT---
support for your questions about how to use Canvas and other learning technologies
services, such helping students create and produce video and audio content. Our
lab and multimedia Studio. Both provide students with space and technology to
web-enhanced classes using Canvas. For support using and navigating Canvas or other
to research a paper or project, or you have questions about citing your sources. Our
projects. They work with students one-on-one to explain how to find information
collections. Likewise, our TCC Archivist helps students explore TCC’s history, both
or connect with our 24/7 Online Research Chat on the library’s home page.
in building 11. Art and classroom supplies, nursing uniforms, and postage stamps
can order textbooks online approximately four weeks before classes start. The
graduation regalia, and bargain books. Drinks and a variety of snacks are available at the
in-store or at the Gig Harbor Campus.
options, and seasonal specials. Stop by and study in the spacious Student Center area
videos and podcasts? Are you struggling to turn your creative ideas into polished and
recording studio is equipped with professional-grade audiovisual technology, including
production specialists can assist you with every step of the production process for your
product. You will learn to use industry-standard media production equipment and
Just bring your creativity and imagination and come make something great with us!
content and have the greatest possibility to succeed in their course work. Students
Directed Self-Placement tools, or alternative assessments.
Instruction (SI) Leader assigned to your course! SI leaders...
of course material and improve your grades.

@@@PAGE 24@@@
---LEFT---
• Won’t lecture you, but instead will facilitate learning exercises that encourage
use in future courses as well.
• Help you connect with your classmates.
Dedicated Tutoring
Email: wryder@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/tutoring_centers/supplemental-instruction
If you are in your first math or English course at TCC, you might have a Dedicated Tutor
• Are your peers—TCC students who have taken this class and want to help
• Attend the class alongside you and provide support for you during class.
• Are available for some drop-in, one-on-one tutoring if you want more support.
• Will focus on helping you develop new learning strategies.
• Will help you find and use other on-campus services, such as the Math Advising
Business Education Center (BEC)
Phone: 253-460-4411
Email: spressley@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/tutoring_centers/businesseducationcenter
If you are a student in the business program, you can get support from tutors in the TCC
• Individual and group drop-in or appointment tutoring in business-related
computer user courses, information technology, and economics.
• On-campus space where you can study or do homework, and computers
Science, Engineering, and Math Tutoring Center (SEMTC)
Phone: 253-566-5145
Email: SEMtutoring@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/tutoring_centers/science-engineering-math-tutoring-center-semtc
If you are in any science, engineering, or math class at TCC, you can get support, resources,
• Study space and whiteboards you can use for individual and group study.
• Drop-in and appointment SEM tutoring.
• Books and calculators to check out.
• A computer lab where you can access math, science, and engineering related
• Graphing calculators you can rent each quarter.
Writing and Tutoring Center (WTC)
Phone: 253-566-6032
Email: tutoring@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/tutoring_centers/writing-tutoring-center
TCC student across the curriculum can get tutoring support and resources from TCC’s
• Both individual and group help for you: make an appointment or just drop
• Tutors for most of your core courses at TCC, such as math, physics, music,
courses, and more.
• Writing tutors who can help you through the whole process of writing a
• Group drop-in sessions for students seeking extra help in chemistry, biology,
• Space where you can stay as long as you like, to study and use our computers
• A one-credit course (WRITE096) for student who are taking classes with
• WRITE140, a tutor practicum course for students who love writing and
Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement (MESA)
Phone: 253-566-5155
Email: ascarcella@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/academic-support/mesa
MESA supports STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) students who
transfer successfully to earn their bachelor’s degrees in STEM. Support includes:
• Academic and transfer advising
---RIGHT---
and empower you to process course content and develop study strategies you can
assigned to your course! Dedicated Tutors...
you succeed as well.
Resource Center and the Writing & Tutoring Centers.
Business Education Center (BEC). The BEC provides...
subjects: accounting, business classes, business algebra and calculus, statistics,
where you can access business related software.
and services from the SEMTC! Visit in person for:
software.
Writing & Tutoring Center (WTC). The WTC provides.:
by.
computer science, chemistry, biology, social sciences, English, languages, ESL, ABE
paper.
physics, grammar, study skills, and English conversation.
for your school work.
lots of writing. WRITE096 tutors can give you consistent, weekly help all quarter.
want to learn how to effectively tutor other students.
Program
are first-generation, low-income, and/or people of color pursing STEM majors to

@@@PAGE 25@@@
---LEFT---
• Academic enrichment
• Scholarship and internship information
• Industry and social connections
• Volunteer and community opportunities
• Professional development
• Book and calculator loans
• Study center with computers
Gig Harbor Campus Learning Resource Center
Phone: 253-460-2424
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/about/campuses/gig-harbor-campus/gig-harbor-campus
TCC’s Gig Harbor Campus Learning Resource Center provides a student computer
scholarship information.
Student Support Services
Personal Support Services
Phone:253-460-3920
Email: foodpantry@tacomacc.edu
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/campus-services/food-pantry
The Max & Margi Harned Titan Food Pantry is open to all TCC students. It provides
resource referrals to services in the community that can help with food insecurity. The
6:30 pm in parking lot F.
Early Learning Center
Phone: 253-566-5180
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/around-campus/early_learning_center
The Early Learning Center is a state certified, accredited, nonprofit campus learning
enable parents to pursue education at TCC by providing a safe, nurturing environment
lunches and afternoon snacks; developmental screening assessment; and family resources
are also available to children of TCC staff and faculty.
The Center accepts children from one year to five years of age and provides a comprehensive
is determined by a sliding fee scale, based on parent’s income. Eligible three and four-year-olds
preschool per day. Also, eligible children one year to three years of age may enroll in
Safe Zone and The Rainbow Action Committee
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/tcc-life/lgbtq-resources
TCC is committed to creating a safe and supportive environment for our students and
housed within TCC’s Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Council (EDIC), is a dedicated a group
and community members.
If you need links and resources to support you, we have a public-facing LGBTQ+ resource
Tacoma community groups to keep our information up to date; however, if you have
advocates listed on the webpage.
The Rainbow Action Committee also advocates for the rights and increased inclusion
regularly to find out what matters to YOU and what challenges you may have experienced
successfully designated all-gender restrooms in every building on campus (you can find
Action Committee’s highest priorities is our Safe Zone program. Safe Zone is a campus-wide
LGBTQ+ students and employees. Starting Spring Quarter of 2022, Safe Zone will offer
LGBTQ+ related topics will include how different aspects of a person’s identity intersect
LGBTQ+ students and employees to be supported and heard at TCC. To learn more,
LGBTQ+ Resources at TCC.
---RIGHT---
lab, tutoring, and other resources including transfer materials, tutoring handouts, and
food to get you through the day and food for home to fill in your budget. We also offer
Nourish Mobile Food Bank is on TCC's Tacoma Campus every Tuesday from 4:30 to
center (Bldg. 3) that offers a high-quality, affordable child care program designed to
for their children. Additional services provided by the Center include breakfasts, hot
and referrals. TCC students are given priority for enrolling their children. Spaces
program of activities suited to the developmental level of the children. Tuition
can enroll in the preschool ECEAP program which provides 6½ hours of free
the Early Head Start program.
employees who are part of the LGBTQ+ community. The Rainbow Action Committee,
of employees deeply invested in supporting all of our LGBTQ+ students, employees,
page on the TCC website. We regularly connect with other TCC departments and
additional resources or ideas for the page, please connect with us by contacting the
of members of the LGBTQ+ community on campus. We survey students and employees
at TCC. For example, recently with the support of TCC leadership, the committee
a map of these restrooms on our LGBTQ+ resource page). Finally, one of the Rainbow
initiative to make sure that TCC is a safe and empowering environment for
ongoing trainings, workshops, and seminars available to everyone at TCC. Safe Zone’s
with their sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression. We want our
get involved, and let us hear from you. Click here to learn more about Safe Zone and

@@@PAGE 26@@@
---LEFT---
College Administration
COLLEGE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
President
Dean of Institutional Effectiveness
Provost & Vice President of Academic Affairs
Dean of Math, Science and Engineering
Dean of Education, Social and Behavioral Sciences
Dean of Business, Paralegal and Technology
Dean of Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication
Associate Dean of Basic Education for Adults (BEdA)
Dean of Library and Learning Innovation
Dean of Gig Harbor Campus and Continuing Education
Dean of Healthcare
Associate Dean of Nursing
Vice President of Student Affairs
Dean of Enrollment and Student Success
Dean of Retention and Student Success
Vice President of College Relations
Vice President of Finance and Administration
Vice President of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
---RIGHT---
Ivan Harrell II
Katie Gulliford
Valerie Sundby
Christopher Willett
Sultana Shabazz
Mary Jane Oberhofer
Kim Flack
Andrew Brottlund
Dale Coleman
Olga Inglebritson
Brandon Censon
Jillian Edwards
Karl Smith
Patrick Brown
Jason Parker
Tamyra Howser
Patricia McCray-Roberts
Traci Simmons

@@@PAGE 27@@@
---LEFT---
Program & Department Chair List
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 28@@@
---LEFT---
Subject Prefix Chair
Accounting ACCT / ACCT& Matthew Mburu
Adult Basic Education ABE Allison Muir
Allied Health AH David Ramirez
Anthropology ANTH /ANTH& Andrew Cho
Art ART / ART& Marit Berg
Astronomy ASTR& Ivan Ramirez
Biology BIOL / BIOL& Gavan Albright
Botany BOT Gavan Albright
Yolonda Williams
Business BUS / BUS&
Matthew Mburu
Chemistry CHEM / CHEM& Kim Davidson
Chinese CHIN& Steve Johns
College COL Sabine Endicott
Communication Studies CMST / CMST& Steve Johns
Community Health Professional CHP Sarah Henley
Computer Science CS Ivan Ramirez
Computer User CU Christine Cerny
Diagnostic Medical Sonography DMS Rachelle Moran
Early Childhood Education ECE / ECED& Jennifer Karshna
Economics ECON& Matthew Mburu
Emergency Medical Services EMS Josh Wright
Engineering ENGR / ENGR& Ivan Ramirez
Jeff Calkins
English ENGL / ENGL& / ENGLC
John Sandin
English for Academic Purposes EAP Steve Johns
English Language Acquisition ELA Susan Lawler
Environmental Science ENVS / ENVS& Gavan Albright
Experiential Learning EXPLR Michelle Butler
Fresh Start FRSH Kyra Smith (Director)
Geography GEOG Gavan Albright
Geology GEOL / GEOL& Gavan Albright
Health Information Management HIM Corinne Jarvis
Health Information Technology HIT Corinne Jarvis
History HIST / HIST& Katrina Taylor
Human Development HD Lexie Generous
Human Services HSP Bridgette Agpaoa
Humanities HUM / HUM& Steve Johns
Information Technology IT Sergio Hernandez
Japanese JAPN& Steve Johns
Library Science LS Heather Gillanders
Logisitics LOG Yolonda Williams
Math MATH / MATH& Amber Mozeleski
Medical Office MO Corinne Jarvis
Music MUSC / MUSC& Anne Lyman
Nursing NURS Beth Hastert
Nursing Assistant Certified NAC Beth Hastert
Nutrition NUTR / NUTR& Gavan Albright
Oceanography OCEA / OCEA& Gavan Albright
Paralegal Studies PLST Beth Acken
Philosophy PHIL& Katrina Taylor
Physical Education PE David Ramirez
Physics PHYS& Ivan Ramirez
---RIGHT---
Email Phone
mmburu@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5311
amuir@tacomacc.edu 253.460.3907
dramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.2013
acho@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5355
mberg@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5031
iramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5365
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
ywilliams@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5257
(Bus 256 & BUS&201) mmburu@tacomacc.du 253.566.5311
kdavidson@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4488
sjohns@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4450
sendicott@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5251
sjohns@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4450
shenley@tacomacc.edu 253.460.3954
iramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5365
ccerny@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4320
rmoran@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4482
jkarshna@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5010
mmburu@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5311
jwright@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5220
iramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5365
jcalkins@tacomacc.edu 253.460.2355
jsandin@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5291
sjohns@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4450
slawler@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4330
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
mbutler@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4399
kmsmith@tacomacc.edu 253.460.3806
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
cjarvis@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5077
cjarvis@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5077
ktaylor@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5215
lgenerous@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5337
Ryder bagpaoaryder@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5258
sjohns@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4450
shernandez@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4362
sjohns@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4450
hgillanders@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5102
ywilliams@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5257
amozeleski@tacomacc.edu 253.460.3957
cjarvis@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5077
alyman@tacomacc.edu 253.566.6040
bhastert@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5228
bhastert@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5228
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
galbright@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4372
backen@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5054
ktaylor@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5215
dramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.2013
iramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5365

@@@PAGE 29@@@
---LEFT---
Political Science POLS / POLS& Katrina Taylor
Psychology PSYC / PSYC& Andrew Cho
Radiologic Science RS Lielie Jarvis
Respiratory Therapy RC Greg Carter
Science SCI Ivan Ramirez
Social Science SOCSC Beth Hastert
Sociology SOC / SOC& Andrew Cho
Spanish SPAN& Steve Johns
Writing Center WRITE Heather Urschel
Faculty
Beth Acken
BA - Sociology, University of New Hampshire
MS - Agriculture and Food Safety, Washington State University
JD - Law, New England School of Law
Melissa Adams
BA - K-12 Education, Washington State University
MLIS - Information and Library Science, University of Washington
Dr. Bridgette Agpaoa Ryder
AA - Transfer, Seattle Central College
BA - Psychology, University of Washington - Seattle
MA - Education & Community Counseling, Seattle University
EdD - Educational Leadership, Seattle University
Gavan Albright
BS - Biology, University of California at Riverside
MS - Evolutionary Biology/Paleontology, California State University at San Bernardino
Dr. Mark Allen
BS - Chemistry, University of Puget Sound
MS - Chemistry, University of Oregon
PhD - Chemistry, University of California Davis
Dr. Kalpna Anand
BA - Psychology, Economics, History; Panjab University
MA - Clinical and Counseling, Panjab University
PhD - Psychology, Bharathiar University
David Anderson
BS - Computer Science, East Carolina University
MS - Software Engineering, East Carolina University
Dr. Jon Armel
BA - Mathematics, Oberlin College
PhD - Mathematics, University of California, San Diego
Bruno Arzola-Padilla
BA - Spanish, Utah State University
MA - Spanish, New Mexico State University
Dona Aubrey
AAS - Health Information Technology, Tacoma Community College
BS - Health Information, Western Governors University
Nigeria Bell
BA - English, University of Washington
BA - Sociology, University of Washington
MA - Marriage and Family Therapy, Pacific Lutheran University
M.Ed. - Instruction and Design, Arizona State University
Laura Bennett
AAS - Radiologic Science, Tacoma Community College
BA - Human Services, Western Washington University
Tara Bennett
AAS - Networking and Cybersecurity, Tacoma Community College
---RIGHT---
ktaylor@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5215
acho@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5355
ljarvis@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5224
gcarter@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5231
iramirez@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5365
bhastert@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5228
acho@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5355
sjohns@tacomacc.edu 253.460.4450
hurschel@tacomacc.edu 253.566.5184

@@@PAGE 30@@@
---LEFT---
BAS - Information Systems, Tacoma Community College
MCL - Cybersecurity and Leadership, University of Washington Tacoma
Dr. Julie Benson
BSN - Nursing, Minot State University
MN - Nursing, Aggregate Health, University of Washington Tacoma
MHA - Healthcare Administration, Chapman University, Fort Lewis McChord
DNP - Nursing Practice, General/Population Health, Washington State University
Marit Berg
BA - Fine Art, San Diego State University
MFA - Painting and Printmaking, Washington State University
Shay Bluemer-Miroite
BA - French and Environmental Studies, Western Michigan University
MPH - International Health, University of Washington
Sean Boyd
AAS - Tacoma Community College
BS - Mathematics, Western Washington University
MS - Mathematics, Western Washington University
Allen Braden
BA - English and Language Arts, Central Washington University
MA - Literature, McNeese State University
MFA - Creative Writing, McNeese State University
Michelle Butler
AA - Psychology, Pierce Community College
BA - Psychology, University of Washington
MEd - Education, Seattle University
Jeff Calkins
BA - English, University of Puget Sound
MA - Writing, Communication, English, Oregon State University
Rebecca Callahan
BS - Nursing, Oakland University, Rochester MI
MS - Nursing, University of Michigan
Dr. Michael Cargill
BS - Biology, Pacific Lutheran University
PhD - Pathology, University of Washington
Gregory Carter
AAS - Respiratory Therapy, Highline Community College
BS - Physical Education - Exercise Science, Pacific Lutheran University
MEd - Education - Instructional Design, Western Governors University
Ruiming Cash
MA - English, University of Washington, Seattle
MA - Asian Languages and Literature, University of Washington, Seattle
Dr. Yeliz Celik
BS - Physics Education, Bosphorus University, Istanbul, Turkey
MS - Science Education, Bosphorus University, Istanbul Turkey
PhD - Physics, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio
Jasmeen Chahal
AA - General Ed for Transfer, Yuba College, California
BA - English, California State University, Sacramento
MA - Teaching Composition and Rhetoric, California State University, Sacramento
MA - Creative Writing, California State University, Sacramento
Mary Chen-Johnson
BA - English, Cornell University
MFA - Creative Writing: Fiction, University of Montana
JD - Juris Doctor, University of Pittsburgh
Andrea Childers
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 31@@@
---LEFT---
AAS - Radiologic Sciences, Moraine Valley Community College
BS - Healthcare Administration, Capella University
Dr. Andrew Cho
BA - Business Administration--International Business and Marketing, University of Washington
MA - Sociology, University of Washington
PhD - Sociology, University of Washington
Emilie Coates-White
BA - Spanish Language and Literature, Whitman College
MEd - Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Seattle University
Seth Coccia
BA - International Relations, University of Washington
MA - Museum and Heritage Studies, University College Cork - National University of
Joseph Colon
BA - Philosophy, University of Puget Sound
MS - Education: Curriculum Design, Western Governors University
Dr. Bernard Comeau
BA - Psychology / Philosophy, St. Thomas University
MA - Religious Studies, University of Calgary
PhD - Religious Studies, University of Ottawa
Adrienne Commeree
BAS - Health Information Management, Tacoma Community College
MLS - Compliance and Risk Analysis- Health Law, Seattle University School of Law
Dr. Pamela Costa
AA - Behavioral Science, Marymount College
BS - Psychology, Loyola Marymount University
MA - Counseling Psychology, Loyola Marymount University
MS - Research Psychology, Palo Alto University/Stanford Consortium
PhD - Clinical Psychology, Palo Alto University-Stanford University Consortium
Dr. Vanessa Cota
BA - Theatre Arts, San Francisco State University
MS - Cellular and Molecular Biology, San Francisco State University
PhD - Molecular Biology, Princeton University
Abigail Cozzi
MS - Healthcare Leadership and Nursing Education, University of Washington Tacoma
Dr. Kenneth Cushman
BS - Neurobiology/Biochemistry, University of Washington
PhD - Neuroscience, Oregon Health & Science University
Dr. Heather Cushman
BS - Psychology as a Natural Science, University of Michigan
PhD - Neuroscience, University of Minnesota
Dr. Kimberly Davidson
BS - Chemistry, University of Oregon
MS - Chemistry, University of Washington
PhD - Chemistry, University of Washington
Deborah Dezutter-Lyshol
AA - Highline Community College
BS - Nursing, Washington State University
MS - Nursing Education, Western Govenor's University
Kyle Dillehay
BFA - Sculpture/Photography, Auburn University
MFA - Sculpture, Georgia State University
Dr. Scott Earle
BA - English, Western Kentucky University
MA - English, Western Kentucky University
PhD - American Literature, University of Arkansas
---RIGHT---
Ireland

@@@PAGE 32@@@
---LEFT---
Jonathan Eastabrooks
AAS - Health Information Technology, Tacoma Community College
BS - Health Informatics and Health Information Management, University of Washington
MBA - Healthcare Leadership, Brandman University
Jillian Edwards
AA - Pierce College
ADN - Nursing, North Seattle College
BSN - Nursing, University of Washington Tacoma
MN - Nursing with specialization in Community and Population Health, University of
DNP - Dual degree: Doctorate of Nursing Practice & Advanced Practice Nurse Practitioner
Advanced Practice Nurse Practitioner with specialization in Family Nurse Practitioner
Sabine Endicott
BA - English, Universitaet Rostock, Germany
MA - English, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Dr. Jeffrey Engle
BS - Biology, Seattle University
BA - Humanities, Seattle University
MS - Chemistry, University of Oregon
PhD - Chemistry, University of Oregon
Benjamin Erkan
BA - Biological Sciences, The Evergreen State College
MS - Software Development, Maryville University
Dr. John Falskow
BA - Music (Trumpet Performance), Washington State University
MA - Teaching, University of Puget Sound
PhD - Music Education, Florida State University
Gregory Ferencko
BA - Mathematics, Rutgers University
MS - Mathematics, Western Washington University
Dr. Jacob Finney
BS - Chemistry, Pacific Lutheran University
MA - Chemistry, University of Washington
PhD - Chemistry, University of Washington
Dr. Elizabeth Fortenbery
BA - College Scholar/Interdisciplinary, University of Tennessee
MA - Anthropology, University of Washington
PhD - Anthropology, University of Washington
Dr. Ken Fox
AA - Trinity Western College
BA - Sociology/English, Fresno Pacific College
MA - English, Fresno State University
DA - English, Idaho State University
Dr. Sandra Galta
BA - Sociology, San Jose State University
MA - Sociology, Kansas State University
PhD - Sociology, Kansas State University
Lexie Generous
BA - Sociology + Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, University of Minnesota
MSW - Social Work, University of Minnesota
Heather Gillanders
BA - Interdisciplinary ART, University of Washington
BFA - Printmaking, University of Washington
MFA - Print Media, Cranbrook Academy of Art
MLIS - Library and Information Science, University of Washington
Nicole Gugliotti
AA - Art, Manatee Community College, now State College of Florida
BFA - Fine Art/Ceramics, Florida Atlantic University
MFA - Fine Art/Ceramics, University of Florida
Derek Haneline
AA - Accounting, Tacoma Community College
BA - Business/Accounting, University of Washington
MS - Accounting, University of Washington
Dr. Kevin Harris
---RIGHT---
Washington
with specialization in Family Nurse Practitioner, University of Washington Seattle

@@@PAGE 33@@@
---LEFT---
AA - Liberal Arts, Houston Community College
BS - Mathematics, Texas Southern University
MS - Mathematics, Sam Houston State University
PhD - Mathematics, University of Texas at Arlington
Kristen Harrison
BS - Biology, Marquette University
MS - Plant Ecology, Oregon State University
Beth Hastert
AA - Nursing, Tacoma Community College
MSN - Nursing Education, Walden University
Rachel Hawkins
AA - Liberal Arts, Truett McConnell University
BA - French, Shorter University
MBA - Leadership, Brenau University
Dr. Shaun Henderson
BS - Zoology, Auckland University
MS - Marine Science, Auckland University
PhD - Marine Biology, University of Otago
Sarah Henley
AAS - Respiratory Therapy, Tacoma Community College
BAS - Community Health Professional, Tacoma Community College
MPH - Public Health, Global Disaster Management, Homeland Security, Humanitarian
Tawnya Henningsen
BA - Biology, Pacific Lutheran University
BS - Nursing, Pacific Lutheran University
MS - Nursing Education, Western Governor's University
Susan Hensley
BSN - Nursing, University of Iowa
MS - Nursing Leadership, Kaplan
Len Heritage
AS - Business, Tacoma Community College
BA - Business with emphasis in Accounting, University of Puget Sound
MBA - Finance, Accounting, and Law, University of Puget Sound
JD - Law, University of Puget Sound
Dr. Sergio Hernandez
BA - Urban Studies, University of Washington
BA - Sustainable Urban Development, University of Washington
MA - Master of Education in Instructional Design, Western Governors University
MS - Geospatial Technology, University Of Washington
EdD - Educational Leadership, University of Washington
Dr. Ralph Hitz
BA - Geology, Colorado College
PhD - Geological Sciences, University of California, Santa Barbara
Dr. Natalie Hobson
AS - Mathematics, South Puget Sound Community College
BS - Math and Diversity, University of Washington
MS - Mathematics, University of Georgia
MA - Mathematics Education, University of Georgia
PhD - Mathematics, University of Georgia
Dr. David Howard
BA - Political Science, State University of New York at Potsdam
MEd - School Counseling, Alabama A&M University
EdD - Counseling, George Washington University
Michael Huffman
BA - English, Creative Writing, University of Washington, Seattle
MA - Journalism, Creative Non-fiction, University of Oregon
Blaine Hunt
BA - Literature, Claremont McKenna College
MA - English Studies, Western Washington University
---RIGHT---
Relief, University of South Florida

@@@PAGE 34@@@
---LEFT---
Philip Hunter
BS - Chemistry and Physics, Pacific Lutheran University
MS - Physical Chemistry, Chemical Physics, and Theoretical Chemistry, University of
Andrew Jackson-Pardo
BS - Mathematics, University of California, Irvine
MS - Pure Mathematics, Cal State Long Beach
Corinne Jarvis
AA - Tacoma Community College
AAS - Health Information Technology AAS, Tacoma Community College
BS - Health Information Management, University of Cincinnati
MEd - Education/Instructional Design, Western Governors Univesity
Lielie Jarvis
BFA - Art, University of South Florida
MAOL - Organizational Leadership in Training and Development, Lewis University
Dr. Kirsten Jenkins
BA - Anthropology, Western Washington University
MA - Anthropology, University of Minnesota
PhD - Anthropology, University of Minnesota
Stephen Johns
BS - Journalism, Southeast Missouri State University
MA - Communication Studies/Speech Communication, Southern Illinois University
Kurt Kageler
BA - Management, Saint Martin's University
MA - Masters in Business Administration, Saint Martin's University
David Kane
AAS - Whatcom Community College
BS - Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering, University of Washington
MS - Aerospace Engineering, University of Bath, United Kingdom
Dr. Jennifer Karshna
BA - Early Childhood Education and Children/Family Studies, Antioch University
MA - Early Childhood Education, Emphasis on Adult Education/Teacher Education, Antioch
PhD - Early Childhood Education, Walden University
Stephanie Khan
BA - Liberal Arts, The evergreen state college
MA - Applied Linguistics and English Language Teaching, Kings College London
Dr. Sarah Kim
AAS - Tacoma Community College
BS - Bioengineering, Washington State University
PhD - Materials Science and Engineering, Washington State University
Dr. Min Kim
BS - Applied Mathematics, Washington State University
MS - Applied Mathematics, Washington State University
EdD - Leadership in Higher Education, Northcentral University
Erin Korff
AAS - Spokane Falls Community College
BS - Information Technology, Networking and Telecommunication
MS - Information Technology, University of Phoenix
Dr. Andrew Kreps
BA - Chemistry, Western Washington University
PhD - Chemistry Education, University of Iowa
Tamara Kuzmenkov
BA - Christian Education; English, Wheaton College
MA - British Literature, California State University at Sacramento
Paul Landry
BS - Biology, Stonehill College
JD - Law, University of Puget Sound
---RIGHT---
California, Berkeley
University

@@@PAGE 35@@@
---LEFT---
Wendy Larsen
BA - Journalism, Fu Jen Catholic University
MA - English (Teaching English as a Second Language), California State University, Sacramento
Robert Larson
BS - Biology, Indiana University
MA - Economics, University of Missouri-Kansas City
Susan Lawler
AA - Tacoma Community College
BA - English, Virginia Commonwealth University
BA - Spanish, Virginia Commonwealth University
MA - Second Language Education, emphasis TESOL, Prescott College
Anh-Duong Le
BS - Biochemistry, Pacific Lutheran University
BA - French and Francophone Studies, Pacific Lutheran University
MS - Biotechnology, The Johns Hopkins University
Jack Lelko
BA - Mathematics, Lewis University
MA - Statistics, University of Illinois
MA - Mathematics Education, University of Montana
Dr. Yi Li
BA - History, Peking University
MA - History, New Mexico State University
MA - History, Peking University
PhD - History, University of Washington
Sonia Llacer
BA - English/ Humanities, Shawnee State University (Ohio)
MA - Spanish, Montana University
Amanda Lucas
AAS - Radiology, Bellingham Technical College
Dr. Anne Lyman
BM - Music History and Literature, The College of Wooster
MM - Choral Conducting, The College-Conservatory of Music at the University of Cincinnati
MLIS - Library Science and Information, San Jose State University
DMA - Choral Conducting, The University of Iowa
Matthew Mburu
BCom - Accounting, University of Nairobi
MS - Accounting, Grand Valley State University
Rachelle McGill
BS - Education (History), The University of South Dakota
MS - Educational Leadership, Southwest Minnesota State University
Sopang Men
AA - Tacoma Community College
BA - English, Washington State University
MFA - Creative Writing, University of Michigan
Dr. James Mendoza
BA - Anthropology, Washington State University
BA - Comparative American Cultures emphasis in Chicano Studies and Native American
MS - Counseling emphasis in College and Career Counseling, San Francisco State University
PhD - Community College Leadership, Oregon State University
Dr. Angela Mohanty
BS - Chemistry, Winona State University
MS - Organic Chemistry, Kansas State University
PhD - Polymer Chemistry, Rensselaer Polytechnic University
Monica Monk
BA - English, Carleton College
BA - German, University of Washington
MA - Germanics, University of Washington
MA - TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages), University of Washington
MA - Professional and Creative Writing, Central Washington University
Curtis Moon
BS - Microbiology, Central Washington University
BA - Spanish Language, Central Washington University
MS - Microbiology, Central Washington University
---RIGHT---
Studies, Washington State University

@@@PAGE 36@@@
---LEFT---
Rachelle Moran
AAS - Diagnostic Medical Sonography, Wallace State Community College
BS - Nutrition Sciences, Kaplan (Now Purdue) University
MBA - Business Administration, Healthcare Management, University North Alabama
Valerie Morgan-Krick
BA - Mathematics, Gonzaga University
BA - Religious Studies, Gonzaga University
MA - Pastoral Ministry, Gonzaga University
Amber Mozeleski
BS - Statistics, University of North Florida
MS - Statistics, University of Florida
MA - Applied Mathematics, University of Washington
Allison Muir
BA - English, Indiana University
MEd - Reading, University of New Hampshire
Dr. Abdul-Rahman Nasser
BS - Mathematics, University of Iowa
MS - Mathematics, University of Northern Iowa
PhD - Mathematics, Western Michigan University
Anne Nesbit
MA - Cinema Television, University of Southern California
Gwendollyn Noble-Wold
AA - South Puget Sound Community College
BA - Psychology, Eastern Washington Univeristy
MA - American Studies, Pennsylvania State Univeristy
Dr. Jennifer Olson
BA - Art History, Portland State University
MA - Art History/Spanish Baroque, The Pennsylvania State Univeristy
PhD - Spanish Baroque Art, The Pennsylvania State Univerity
Jennifer Penquite
AAS - Health Information Technology, Tacoma Community College
BAS - Health Information Management Administration, University of Cincinnati
Dr. Jonathan Pottle
BS - Biomedical Engineering, Tulane University
MS - Biomedical Engineering, Tulane University
PhD - Biomedical Sciences, Tulane University
Per Provencher
BA - Asian Languages and Literature, University of Washington
BA - International Studies: Japanese Regional Studies, University of Washington
MS - Electronics Engineering: Power Systems and Computer Engineering, Naval Postgraduate
Donovan Ramage
BA - English, Brigham Young University
MA - English (American Studies / Composition & Rhetoric), University of Utah
Dr. Ivan Ramirez
Licenciatura - Physics, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Peru
MA - Astronomy, University of Texas at Austin
PhD - Astronomy, University of Texas at Austin
Dr. David Ramirez
BS - Physical Education, Athletic Training Emphasis, California State Polytechnic University,
MA - Physical Education, Athletic Administration Emphasis, California State University,
DSc - Doctor of Science , Athletic Training, Rocky Mountain University of Health Professions
Dr. Tomas Ramos
AA - Communications, South Plains College
BA - Journalism/French, Pan American University
MA - Communications, University of Texas Pan American
PhD - Organizational Leadership with a Specialization in Speech-Communications, University
Kendra Rapp
BA - Mathematics, University of Colorado
MS - Mathematics, Texas A&M
Latoya Reid
BA - Print Journalism, Hampton University
MFA - Creative Writing, Fairleigh Dickinson University
---RIGHT---
School
Pomona
Fresno
of The Incarnate Word

@@@PAGE 37@@@
---LEFT---
Liza Rendon
AA - South Puget Sound Community College
BA - Psychology: Focus on Veteran Health and Healing, The Evergreen State College
MA - Counseling Psychology, Saint Martin's University
Kellee Rickerl
AS - Respiratory Therapy, Victor Valley College
BA - Social Sciences, Chapman University
MEd - Masters of Education in Adult Education and Training, Colorado State University
Danielle Ritter
BA - K-8 Education in English and prek-12 special education, Niagara University
MA - Literacy Education, Pacific Lutheran University
Dr. Polly Robinson
BA - Speech Communication, University of Wisconsin
MA - Communication Studies, California State University, Northridge
EdD - Educational Leadership and Policy Studies for Community Colleges, Cal State
Annalee Rothenberg
BA - Anthropology, San Diego State University
BA - Spanish, San Diego State University
Dr. John Sandin
AA - Lakewood Community College
BA - History, Augsburg College
MA - History, New Mexico State University
PhD - Curriculum and Instruction, New Mexico State University
Stephen Sandweiss
BA - History, University of Michigan
MA - International Relations, San Francisco State University
Cheyanne Schaefer
BAS - Business Administration / Human Resources, Pacific Lutheran University
MS - Human Resources, Capella University
Dr. Steffi Schrepfer
AA (German Equivalent) - Psychology, J.W.-Goethe University Frankfurt, Germany
BA (German Equivalent) - Psychology, J.W.-Goethe University, Frankfurt - Germany
MA - Psychology, J.W. Goethe University Frankfurt, Germany
PhD - Experimental Psychology, University of Southern Mississippi (USM)
Isabella Sebastiani
BS - Management, University of Phoenix
MS - Child and Adolescent Development, University of La Verne
Kayla Shaffron
AS - Chemistry, Tacoma Community College
BA - English, University of Washington
MS - Chemistry, Ohio University
MA - Education, Pacific Lutheran University
Jeremy Sims
AAS - Networking and Cybersecurity, Tacoma Community College
BS - Information Technology and Security, Western Governors University
MS - Master of Cybersecurity and Information Assurance, Western Governors University
Jennifer Snoek-Brown
BA - English, West Texas A&M University
MS - Library Science, University of North Texas
Dr. Andy Song
BA - Psychology, Seattle University
MA - Developmental Psychology, Azusa pacific University
PhD - Special Education, Seattle Pacific University
Beccy Stave
BS - Biology, University of Sussex
MS - Applied Marine Science, University of Plymouth
Melissa Stoddard
BA - Intelligence Studies, American Military University
MPH - Public Health, American Military University
---RIGHT---
Northridge

@@@PAGE 38@@@
---LEFT---
Mary Anne Tagulinao
BSN - Nursing, Far Eastern University
MSN - Nursing, University of Phoenix
Katrina Taylor
BS - Interdisciplinary Degree in the Social Sciences with an Emphasis on Environmental
MA - Political Science and Environmental Policy, Northern Arizona University
Olli Toppeta
BA - Art History, Grinnell College
MS - Library and Information Science, Pratt Institute
MA - History of Art and Design, Pratt Institute
Dr. Lando Tosaya
BA - Liberal Studies: American Society, California State University Los Angeles
MA - Interdisciplinary Studies, California State University Los Angeles
MA - Communication, University of Washington
PhD - Communication, University of Washington
Trung Tran
BS - Mathematics, California Polytechnic University of Pomona
MS - Mathematics, California Polytechnic University of Pomona
Alisa Ulferts-Birkenstein
BA - Political Science, University of California, Los Angeles
MS - Urban Education, Mercy College
MFA - Writing and Literature, Bennington College
Alexia Valdes
AA - Tidewater Community College
BA - Literature with a focus on Creative Writing Fiction, University of California, Santa
MFA - Creative writing with a focus on fiction, Otis College of Art and Design
MS - Integrative Nutrition, Bastyr University
Jacqueline Visel
AS - Health Information Technology, Tacoma Community College
BS - Health Information Management, Tacoma Community College
MEd - Instructional Design, Western Governors University
Dr. Xin Wang
BS - Management Science, Beijing Normal University
M.Eng - Systems Engineering, Beijing Normal University
MS - Physics, McMaster University
PhD - Physics, McMaster University
Kim Warnick
BS - Political Science & Spanish, Belmont University
MA - Counseling Psychology, The Seattle School of Theology & Psychology
Dr. Yolonda Williams
AAS - Tacoma Community College
BAS - Interdisciplinary Studies, University of Washington, Tacoma
MA - Organizational Leadership, Chapman University
MA - Project Management, DeVry University - Keller Graduate School of Management
EdD - Higher Education Leadership, National University
Rebekah Williams
AA - Seattle Central College
BA - Linguistics, University of Washington
MLIS - Library and Information Science, University of Washington
Shannon Wilson
AA - Highline College
AAS - Paralegal Studies, Highline College
BA - English, Central Washington University
MA - English, Central Washington University
Josh Wright
BA - Educational Studies, Western Governor's University
Heather Zaraski
AAS - Diagnostic Medical Sonography, Bellevue College
---RIGHT---
Policy, Michigan State University
Cruz

@@@PAGE 39@@@
---LEFT---
Programs - Pathways
BUSINESS, PARALEGAL, AND TECHNOLOGY
The Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway includes a diverse range of
programs that will prepare you for success whether your goal is to enter the
workforce or continue your academic journey. If you’re ready to acquire practical
skills for the workforce or continue your academic journey, the Business, Paralegal,
and Technology pathway can help you get there.
Accounting
Business
Information Technology
Health Information Technology
Health Information Management
Paralegal Studies
EDUCATION, SOCIAL, AND BEHAVORIAL SCIENCES
The Education, Social and Behavioral Sciences Pathway is designed for students
interested in Education, Social, and Behavioral Sciences with a goal of transferring
to a four-year university and/or seeking employment in the fields of early
childhood education or human services. If you have a passion for understanding
and positively impacting society through education, or social and human services,
this could be the perfect pathway for you!
Anthropology
Early Childhood Education
Elementary Education
Environmental Sustainability
History
Human Services
Political Science
Psychology
Sociology
SCIENCE, ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS
The Science, Engineering, and Mathematics (SEM) Pathway leads to careers that
are rewarding, well paid, and in demand. Students in the SEM Pathway focus on
solving problems through a mixture of creativity, experimentation, and data
analysis. Our degrees are designed to smoothly transfer to a four-year university
so that you can begin your journey toward a career as a software engineer, medical
doctor, architect, data scientist, cryptographer, genetic engineer, environmental
scientist, actuary, aerospace engineer, and more.
Biology
Atmospheric Science
Chemistry
Computer Science
Earth Sciences
Environmental Science
Environmental Sustainability
Engineering
Mathematics
Physics & Astronomy
---RIGHT---
CREATIVE ARTS, LITERATURE, AND COMMUNICATION
The Creative Arts, Literature and Communication Pathway is for students seeking
to refine their communication strategies, styles, and interpersonal skills needed for
the workforce. Express your creativity through art and music, improve your writing
skills for diverse audiences and purposes, champion inclusion and social justice
advocacy, and expand your cultural understanding through world language and
intercultural studies. Join us in promoting inclusion and positive change while
gaining marketable skills.
Art
Communication Studies
Interdisciplinary Writing
Literature
Music
Digital Music
HEALTHCARE
The Healthcare Pathway is designed for individuals looking to jumpstart their
career in the healthcare industry! Whether you dream of becoming a healthcare
professional that works in a clinical setting or work indirectly with patients, aspiring
to make a direct impact on the well-being of others, this pathway is specifically
designed to prepare you with the practical skills and knowledge needed for success.
If you're ready to embark on your healthcare career journey, the Healthcare
Pathway is perfectly tailored to meet your career goals!
Allied Health
Community Health
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Emergency and Medical Health Services
Health Information Technology
Health Information Management
Pre-Nursing
Nursing
Radiologic Science
Respiratory Therapy
BASIC EDUCATION FOR ADULTS (BEDA)
BEdA classes prepare students for all other pathways by offering low-cost classes
tailored for students who wish to build their English language, reading, writing and/
or math skills in order to successfully transition to college and/or the professional
world. If you are learning English as an additional language, looking for high school
completion opportunities, or hope to develop your academic skills, this is the
perfect place to begin your college journey.
Adult Basic Education
English Language Acquisition (ELA)
High School Completion
Integrated Basic Education Skills and Training (I-BEST)

@@@PAGE 40@@@
---LEFT---
2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
Printable PDF: 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course List
Communication Skills
Humanities
Natural Sciences
Physical Education (Activity Courses)
Accounting Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/bpt/accounting/index
Department Email: BusPrograms@tacomacc.edu
Department Chair: Matthew Mburu - mmburu@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
List
Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Social Sciences
General Distribution
Multicultural

@@@PAGE 41@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 42@@@
---LEFT---
Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate
Catalog Description
The Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate certificate prepares students for
entry-level positions as assistant clerks in accounts payable or accounts receivable.
To complete the Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk certificate, students must first
complete the Accounting Office Associate Certificate.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
30 ATBABC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Accounting Office Associate Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
OR PSYC&100 - General Psychology
Bachelor-bound students are advised to take PSYC& 100 .
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
---RIGHT---
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Core Requirements (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
Advising Notes:
Math: Bachelor-bound students are advised to take MATH147.
English: Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and
to increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for Reading
and Writing.
Program Map
Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 43@@@
---LEFT---
Accounting Office Associate Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Accounting Office Associate Certificate
Catalog Description
The Accounting Office Associate certificate prepares students for entry-level
general accounting employment in office support positions.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
15 ATBAAC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
OR PSYC&100 - General Psychology
Bachelor-bound students are advised to take PSYC&100.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
---RIGHT---
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Program Map
Accounting Office Associate Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 44@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Accounting
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Accounting
Catalog Description
The Associate in Applied Science (AAS) in Accounting program equips students
with the skills and knowledge needed for a variety of entry-level accounting
positions in business and office environments. The program follows a progressive
structure, offering four distinct levels of achievement that align with increasing
levels of job responsibility and career advancement.
To earn the AAS degree in Accounting, students must first successfully complete
the following certificates:
1. Accounting Office Associate Certificate
2. Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate
3. Bookkeeping Systems Certificate
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 ATBACAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Accounting Office Associate Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
OR PSYC&100 - General Psychology
Bachelor-bound students are advised to take PSYC& 100.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
---RIGHT---
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
Bachelor-bound students are advised to take MATH147.
Bookkeeping Systems Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT145 - Payroll And Business Taxes
• BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CU203 - Excel II
Students who have the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to get credit for CU203. Submit applicable
certification to the Accounting Program Chair for review.
Core Requirements (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 45@@@
---LEFT---
• ACCT165 - Accounting with Sage
• ACCT175 - Accounting with QuickBooks
• ACCT&202 - Principles of Accounting II
• ACCT250 - Federal Income Tax
• ACCT290 - Work Internship
• BUS&201 - Business Law
Elective Requirements (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Elective Courses
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Accounting AAS Electives
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Accounting Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
Degree Map Name
Associate of Applied Sciences - Accounting
Total Degree Map Credits
15
Degree Map Effective Catalog Year
-
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 15 15
Requirement Select
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits 5
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits 5
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
• AND PSYC&100 - General Psychology
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits 5
Contact Hours 55
Clinical -
Criticality No
Total General Education Credits Total Major Credits
0 5
Total Minor Credits Total Elective Credits
0 0

@@@PAGE 46@@@
---LEFT---
Bookkeeping Systems Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Bookkeeping Systems Certificate
Catalog Description
The Bookkeeping Systems certificate prepares students for entry-level positions as
accounts payable clerks, accounts receivable clerks and payroll assistants. To
complete the Bookkeeping Systems Certificate, students must first complete the
Accounting Office Associate Certificate and Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk
Certificate.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
45 ATBBSC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Accounting Office Associate Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
OR PSYC&100 - General Psychology
Bachelor-bound students are advised to take PSYC& 100.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
---RIGHT---
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Assistant Bookkeeping Clerk Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
Advising Notes:
Math: Bachelor-bound students are advised to take MATH147.
English: Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and
to increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for Reading
and Writing.
Core Requirements (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT145 - Payroll And Business Taxes
• BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CU203 - Excel II
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Program Map
Bookkeeping Systems Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 47@@@
---LEFT---
Computerized Accounting Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Computerized Accounting Certificate
Catalog Description
Specialized Accounting Certificates are designed for individuals who are currently
employed in the workforce and returning to school to enhance or update skills for
the accounting industry. The Computerized Accounting Certificate is designed to
gain knowledge and skills about application programs commonly used in the
accounting industry.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
13 ATBCAC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT165 - Accounting with Sage
• ACCT175 - Accounting with QuickBooks
• CU203 - Excel II
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Program Map
Computerized Accounting Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Tax Preparation Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Tax Preparation Certificate
Catalog Description
Specialized Accounting Certificates are designed for individuals who are currently
employed in the workforce and returning to school to enhance or update skills for
the accounting industry.
The Tax Preparation Certificate is designed to gain knowledge and skills about
income, payroll and business taxes. It also covers preparation of payroll checks and
related documents.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
15 ATBTPC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT145 - Payroll And Business Taxes
• ACCT250 - Federal Income Tax
• ACCT290 - Work Internship
Program Map
Tax Preparation Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 48@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
General Information
Emphasis is on the development and interpretation of financial statements: the
balance sheet, income statement and the statement of equity.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math Placement
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool; OR
Elementary Algebra
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MATH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
OR ABE85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
ACCT&202 - Principles of Accounting II
General Information
ACCT&202 is a continuation of ACCT&201. Introduces accounting for long-term
debt and investments. Examines the measuring and reporting of Stockholders'
Equity and consolidated statements. Re-emphasizes the preparation of the
Statement of Cash Flows. Introduction to methods used to interpret financial
statements.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Accounting
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
---RIGHT---
ACCT&203 - Principles of Accounting III
General Information
Introduction to cost concepts such as cost-volume-profit analysis and the
budgeting process. Examines methods to determine product costs of a
manufacturing business and the methods employed to control costs, such as the
use of the standard cost system.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Accounting
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I

@@@PAGE 49@@@
---LEFT---
ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
General Information
Introduces students to basic accounting concepts and procedures, emphasizing
sole proprietors. Topics include analysis of business transactions and completion of
the accounting cycle, including preparation of financial statements. Students will
be introduced to computers.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math Placement
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool; OR
Elementary Algebra
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MATH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
• ABE85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
Recommended Preparation
Type
Recommended
Computer User
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU102 - Word I
AND CU103 - Excel I
---RIGHT---
ACCT145 - Payroll And Business Taxes
General Information
Reviews state and federal laws and regulations on payroll computations,
deductions and other business taxes.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
Accounting
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
ACCT165 - Accounting with Sage
General Information
Introduction to automated accounting methods using Sage. Sage is used to
examine the complete accounting cycle. The course focuses on technical skills
behind the screens and soft skills needed in an accounting department.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Accounting
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I

@@@PAGE 50@@@
---LEFT---
ACCT175 - Accounting with QuickBooks
General Information
Introduction to automated accounting methods using QuickBooks. QuickBooks is
used to examine the complete accounting cycle. Includes analysis, demonstration,
exporting, importing and hands-on experience using the general ledger, accounts
payable, accounts receivable and payroll modules.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Accounting
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
ACCT165
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT165 - Accounting with Sage
ACCT250 - Federal Income Tax
General Information
Federal income tax for the layman, accounting student, working accountant/
bookkeeper and small business owner, with special emphasis on tax issues
affecting individuals.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Accounting
Earn a minimum grade of C- in the following:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
OR ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
---RIGHT---
ACCT290 - Work Internship
General Information
During one quarter of the sophomore year, students can receive college credits for
hands-on accounting work experience and training in a private or public sector
organization.
Components Credits
Systems 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Permission Required
Program Chair permission required.
ACCT299 - Independent Study & Special Projects
General Information
Study on an individual basis.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Permission Required
Program Chair permission required.

@@@PAGE 51@@@
---LEFT---
Adult Basic Education Department
TCC’s Adult Basic Education (ABE) program offers an affordable pathway for students
school diploma through the High School+ program, take GED® support classes, or take
courses.
For information on our Adult Basic Education department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/basic-education/
Building 7 Advising Area
Front Office: 253-566-5144
For general program questions email basicskills@tacomacc.edu
Adult Basic Education Department Chair: Allison Muir - amuir@tacomacc.edu
Programs
Adult Basic Education
Overview
Full Credential Title
Adult Basic Education
Catalog Description
The Basic Education for Adults (BEdA) department is an affordable and supported
pathway to college. BEdA offers a variety of programs for individuals who wish to
improve their basic reading, writing, math, conversation, and employment skills.
BEdA students receive comprehensive career pathway planning and navigation
support from Transitional Studies Navigators and Advisors. Programs include
English as a Second Language, Adult Basic Education, and High School Completion,
vocationally focused basic skills programs, and programs designed for
college-bound and Career Training participants.
Schedules include both day and evening classes. Students between the ages of
16-18 must obtain formal high school releases. Individuals with F-1, M-1, and J-1
visas are not eligible for federally funded Adult Basic Skills services. Before
enrolling, students are required to attend an information session and complete a
skills assessment.
---RIGHT---
to achieve their professional and educational aspirations. Students can earn their high
classes to improve their reading, writing, and math skills to prepare for college level

@@@PAGE 52@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ABE19 - Navigating College ABE/ELA
General Information
Students will build the skills to persist through ABE/ELA and successful transition
to college-level courses.To facilitate students' development of the capacities
necessary to confidently navigate their unique college and career pathways. Topics
may include: self-advocacy skills; leveraging students cultural capital; setting and
achieving goals; academic planning; self care and stress management; cultivating
mentor, peer and community relationships; communication; career exploration;
connecting with college and community resources; critical thinking related to
equity, diversity, and inclusion; and information literacy. This course may be
offered to special student groups such as High School+ (HS+), Workforce
Education, and/or English Language Acquisition (ELA).
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program.
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
ABE20 - ABE Educational Interview
General Information
The purpose of this class is to orient new students to the ABE/GED programs and
resources at the college. In this class, the student will develop educational and
personal goals, develop self-awareness and identify strategies and resources that
will assist in achieving professional and academic goals.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills program.
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
---RIGHT---
ABE21 - Introduction to Practical Computing
General Information
To provide individuals in the BEdA program with an opportunity to cultivate the
computer usage skills necessary to transition to post secondary education as
confident, successful students. This course is an introduction to computer usage
skills using the most current Microsoft Windows operating system. Topics include:
developing computer literacy, navigation, organization, printing, file location and
management, accessing help.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
ABE59 - HS+ Portfolio Class A
General Information
The purpose of this class is to allow students to show high school content area
competency and fulfillment of HS+ graduation requirements through the
completion of online independent portfolio assignments. Students will develop
educational plans designed around their personal aspirations, develop
self-awareness and identify strategies and resources that will assist in achieving
professional and academic goals, including transition to college and /or
certification and training programs. This competency based class allows students
to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and
knowledge, and earn high school completion credits. This course is a non-transfer
credit course for Adult Basic Education students with a goal of earning a high
school diploma who, at intake, have credits placing them at 9th or 10th grade and/
or score 236-245 on a CASAS test.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.

@@@PAGE 53@@@
---LEFT---
ABE69 - HS+ Portfolio Class B
General Information
The purpose of this class is to allow students to show high school content area
competency and fulfillment of HS+ graduation requirements through the
completion of online independent portfolio assignments. Students will develop
educational plans designed around their personal aspirations, develop
self-awareness and identify strategies and resources that will assist in achieving
professional and academic goals, including transition to college and /or
certification and training programs. This competency based class allows students
to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and
knowledge, and earn high school completion credits. This course is a non-transfer
credit course for Adult Basic Education students with a goal of earning a high
school diploma who, at intake, have credits placing them at 11th or 12th grade and/
or score 246-255 on a CASAS test.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
---RIGHT---
ABE70 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences: Health
Science
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on health
science. Possible topics include: nutrition; stress management; fitness; disease
prevention and control; drug addiction and recovery; growth and development;
and the impacts of environmental, family and cultural factors on health.
Laboratories are included. This competency based class allows students to work at
their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge,
and earn possible high school completion Science, Lab Science, Contemporary
World Issues, Health, English, and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
ABE71 - Reading and Writing for Occupational Education
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
occupational education. Students will investigate possible career paths, acquire
employability and leadership skills, and develop the technology skills necessary for
the workplace. This competency based class allows students to work at their own
pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn
possible high school completion occupational education, English, and/or elective
credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.

@@@PAGE 54@@@
---LEFT---
ABE72 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies:
Washington State History
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
Washington State History through multicultural perspectives. Students will
examine Washingtons social, cultural, economic, geographical and political history
as well as explore current State issues. This competency based class allows
students to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated
skills and knowledge, and earn possible high school completion Social Studies (WA
State History and/or Government and Civics), English, and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
ABE73 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies:
Contemporary World Issues
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
contemporary world issues. Students will examine diverse societies from around
the world and explore the major issues that affect our ability to connect and thrive
as a global community. Possible topics include: homelessness, poverty, immigration,
human rights, and social and economic inequities. This competency based class
allows students to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to
demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn possible high school completion
Social Studies (Contemporary World Issues), English, and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
---RIGHT---
ABE74 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences: Biology
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on biology.
Topics include: scientific method and literacy; basic cellular anatomy and
biochemical processes; evolution; diversity of life; and ethical issues related to
scientific and medical research. Laboratories are included. This competency based
class allows students to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to
demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn possible high school completion
English, Science, Lab Science, Contemporary World Issues and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
ABE75 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies: US
History, Government, and Civics
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on United
States History through multicultural perspectives. The course includes social and
political history and geography providing students with a broad view of Americas
past and present. Possible course topics include: African-American history,
immigrants, womens studies, Native American history, Civil Rights, and major
turning points in US history. This competency based class allows students to work
at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge,
and earn possible high school completion English, Social Studies (US History and/or
Government and Civics), and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.

@@@PAGE 55@@@
---LEFT---
ABE77 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences:
Environmental Science
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
Environmental Science. Topics include population, ecology, climate change,
sustainability and pollution. Students will specifically focus on environmental
issues related to the Pacific Northwest. Laboratories and field trips are included.
This competency based class allows students to work at their own pace, exit at a
level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn possible high
school completion English, Lab Science, Science, Contemporary World Issues and/
or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
---RIGHT---
ABE78 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies:
Contemporary World Issues 2
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on World
Cultures. Using a comparative approach, students will examine societies from
around the world to explore the patterns of human life in areas such as adaptation,
economics, family, political organization, healing, and religion as well as explore
current issues impacting those societies. By examining different peoples through a
cultural anthropologic lens, students will develop a better understanding of the
unity and the diversity of humankind. This competency based class allows students
to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and
knowledge, and earn possible high school completion English, Social Studies
(Contemporary World Issues)and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Basic Skills Program
Placement into Basic Skills Program
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.
Additional Comments:
For more information, visit the Basic Education for Adults webpage.

@@@PAGE 56@@@
---LEFT---
ABE83 - Applied Math II
General Information
Students will read, write and interpret mathematical information by applying the
operations of whole numbers and extending skills in fractions, decimals and
percents. Students will use basic patterns and algebraic thinking including
evaluating algebraic expressions and one-two step equations. This course will
integrate real life geometry skills including area, perimeter, volume, lines, angles
and polygons. Students will interpret contextualized line, bar and circle graphs and
measures of central tendency.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ABE82 - Applied Math I (Inactive)
Additional Comments:
CASAS score of 221-229 is also sufficient
ABE84 - Pre-Algebra
General Information
Students will read, write and interpret mathematical information by extending
previous knowledge of whole numbers, fractions, decimals and percents in an
algebraic context. Students will apply ratios and proportions to algebraic word
problems. Students will extend algebraic thinking including signed numbers, order
of operations, evaluating algebraic expressions and solving one-three step
equations. This course will integrate real life geometry skills including area,
perimeter, volume, lines, angles, Pythagorean Theorem, circles, cylinders and
polygons by applying algebraic formulas.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ABE83 - Applied Math II
Additional Comments:
or CASAS score of 230-235
---RIGHT---
ABE85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
General Information
This is a beginning algebra course specifically designed for students with
pre-algebra background. Topics include variables and signed numbers, solutions to
linear equations and inequalities, simplification of algebraic expressions,
evaluation and manipulation of formulas, an emphasis on word problems,
coordinate geometry, graphing of linear equations, and scatterplots. Scientific
calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ABE84 - Pre-Algebra
ABE90 - Elementary Algebra
General Information
Topics include linear equations, polynomials, factoring, rational expressions, and
graphing. Scientific calculator required.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 8
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ABE85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
OR MATH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra

@@@PAGE 57@@@
---LEFT---
ABE94 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
General Information
An integrated pre-college course designed to improve the student's reading and
writing ability for entrance into ENGL& 101. Course work focuses on critical
reading and analytical writing in response to readings, with an emphasis on
organization, unity, coherence, and adequate development; an introduction to
expository essays; and a review of the rules and conventions of standard written
English. Essay and research writing is included. This is a preparatory class for
college success with reading emphasis on text analysis for structure, inferring
meaning, critical thinking, and vocabulary development. Introduction to literary
devices is included. HS21+ students may have the opportunity to earn HS credit
based on the contextualized theme of the course. The criteria to earn a specific
content credit will be clearly outlined in the syllabus and align with the HS21+
credit earning process.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ABE74 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences: Biology
OR ABE75 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies: US
History, Government, and Civics
OR ABE77 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences:
Environmental Science
OR ABE78 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies:
Contemporary World Issues 2
Allied Health Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/healthcare/allied-health/index
Email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Department Chair: David Ramirez dramirez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
ABE95 - Intermediate Algebra
General Information
Topics include introduction to functions; linear, quadratic, exponential and
logarithmic functions and their applications; systems of linear equations and
inequalities and their applications; rational exponents and radicals.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ABE90 - Elementary Algebra
OR MATH90 - Elementary Algebra

@@@PAGE 58@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 59@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science - Transfer in Allied Health
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science - Transfer in Allied Health
Catalog Description
The Associate in Applied Science–Transfer (AAS-T) in Allied Health offers a flexible
academic pathway for students pursuing a broad range of healthcare careers. This
program is ideal for students who are exploring various health professions or have
already identified a specific area of interest and need to complete prerequisites
and degree requirements for advanced study.
Through this program, students can:
• Explore healthcare career options while fulfilling transferable
academic requirements
• Apply previously earned, credit-bearing allied health certificates
toward completion of a two-year degree
• Prepare for admission to competitive allied health, nursing, or applied
baccalaureate programs
This degree is designed to support both career readiness and academic transfer,
providing a strong foundation for continued education in the healthcare field.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 HSAAHAAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
DEGREE COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable 90 credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
Students should consult with their Advisor when selecting courses for this
degree and check entry requirements for their prospective healthcare program.
Emergency Medical Services
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Nursing
Radiologic Science
Respiratory Therapy
Allied Health Electives (10 credits) or Certificate
Type
Completion Requirement
Complete one of the following options:
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Allied Health Electives
Courses from the following selective entry programs also satisfy this
requirement:
Diagnostic Medical Sonography (DMS)
Emergency and Medical Health Services (EMS)
Radiologic Science (RS)
---RIGHT---
Respiratory Therapy (RC)
Nursing (NURS)
Nursing Assistant Certified (NAC)
These courses require that students are accepted into the program before
completing.
OR
Complete 1 Allied Health Certificate
Case Aide Certificate
Certified Nursing Assistant Certificate
Emergency Medical Technician Certificate
Health Records Certificate
Medical Billing Specialist Certificate
Medical Scribe Certificate
General Education Requirements (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Complete at least 1 courses in the following course sets:
• Communication Skills
Quantitative Skills / Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 courses in the following course sets:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Recommend to choose from:
MATH&141 Precalculus I - Precalculus I
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics - Introduction to Statistics
MATH&107 Math in Society, MATH&131 Math for Elementary Education
1, MATH&132 Math for Elementary Education 2 not recommended for
students planning to apply for a selective entry program at TCC.
Humanities (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 courses in the following course sets:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
Recommend to choose from:
CMST&101 Introduction to Communication - Introduction to
Communication
CMST&210 Interpersonal Communication - Interpersonal Communication
CMST&220 Public Speaking - Public Speaking
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural Communication
Social Science (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 courses in the following course sets:
• Social Science Distribution Courses

@@@PAGE 60@@@
---LEFT---
Recommend to choose from:
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
PSYC&200 Lifespan Psychology - Lifespan Psychology
Natural Sciences (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Human Anatomy and Physiology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
AND
Additional Natural Sciences Course
Complete at least 1 courses in the following course sets:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
Recommend to choose from:
BIOL&160 General Cell Biology - General Cell Biology
BIOL&242 Human Anatomy and Physiology 2 - Human Anatomy and
Physiology 2
BIOL&260 General Microbiology - General Microbiology
CHEM&121 Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry - Introduction to
Inorganic Chemistry
NUTR&101 Human Nutrition - Human Nutrition
PHYS&114 General Physics I - General Physics I
PHYS&115 General Physics II - General Physics II
PHYS&116 General Physics III - General Physics III
Core Requirements (6-8 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Allied Health Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• AH100 - Introduction to Allied Health
Medical Terminology
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
OR HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
Electives (37-39 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Students are encouraged to work closely with their academic advisor to
carefully select college-level courses that both fulfill the minimum 90-credit
requirement for graduation and align with their specific field of interest or
intended healthcare education pathway.
---RIGHT---
Recommend choosing from:
AH200 Infection Prevention and Control for Allied Health Professionals -
Infection Prevention and Control for Allied Health Professionals
COL101 College 101 - College 101
CU105 Word I & Excel I - Word I & Excel I
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science - Transfer in Allied Health Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Healthcare Pathways Advising

@@@PAGE 61@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
AH100 - Introduction to Allied Health
General Information
This course provides the student with an introduction to allied health professions
and the delivery of healthcare services. This course also prepares students for the
demands and challenges presented in many allied health programs by providing
strategies for success in the classroom, lab, library, and the clinical environment as
well as provide sound advice and guidance for maintaining their emotional and
physical well-being.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
AH200 - Infection Prevention and Control for Allied
Health Professionals
General Information
This course introduces the student to the fundamental concepts of infection
control and prevent the spread of infection within the healthcare setting. Students
will be introduced concepts related to the chain of infection and standard and
transmission-base precautions; discuss factors that affect the quality of an
effective infection prevention program; and presents an overview of pathogenic
organisms that may be transmitted in healthcare settings.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 62@@@
---LEFT---
Anthropology Department
For information on our Anthropology department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/anthropology
Anthropology Department Chair: Katrina Taylor - ktaylor@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 63@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 64@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Anthropology Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Anthropology Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Anthropology Specialization degree provides a well-rounded foundation in the
primary subfields of anthropology, including archaeology, and biological, cultural
and linguistic anthropology. Designed for students intending to major or minor in
anthropology, the specialization supports seamless transfer to most Washington
State baccalaureate institutions with junior standing. Students planning to transfer
out of state should consult with their intended institution to ensure course
transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 ANTHROPOLO
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. There are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
---RIGHT---
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Anthropology Specialization Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete at least 3 of the following courses:
• ANTH&204 - Archaeology
• ANTH&205 - Biological Anthropology
• ANTH&206 - Cultural Anthropology
• ANTH&207 - Linguistic Anthropology
Electives Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ANTH&100 - Survey of Anthropology
• ANTH&210 - Indigenous Peoples of North America
• ANTH&237 - Human Osteology
• ANTH&245 - Primatology
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101

@@@PAGE 65@@@
---LEFT---
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
MATH& 146 is required for the Anthropology Specialization.
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH46 Co-requisite for Statistics -
MATH& 146.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommend choosing from:
ANTH&207 Linguistic Anthropology - Linguistic Anthropology
(Anthropology Specialization Core Course & Multicultural Course)
ART&100 Art Appreciation - Art Appreciation (Multicultural Course)
ENGL280 Literatures of Diversity - Literatures of Diversity (Multicultural
Course)
HUM&101 Introduction to Humanities - Introduction to Humanities
(Multicultural Course)
MUSC&105 Music Appreciation - Music Appreciation (Multicultural Course)
MUSC106 World Music - World Music (Multicultural Course)
PHIL&101 Introduction to Philosophy - Introduction to Philosophy
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
---RIGHT---
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommend choosing from:
ANTH&204 Archaeology - Archaeology (Anthropology Specialization Core
Course)
ANTH&206 Cultural Anthropology - Cultural Anthropology (Anthropology
Specialization Core Course & Multicultural Course)
HIST&126 World Civilizations I - World Civilizations I (Multicultural Course)
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
(Multicultural Course)
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences Course or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology
(Anthropology Specialization Core Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical
Sciences)
ANTH&237 Human Osteology - Human Osteology (Anthropology
Specialization Elective Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
ANTH&245 Primatology - Primatology (Anthropology Specialization Elective
Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
BIOL&175 Human Biology w/Lab - Human Biology w/Lab (Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences)
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
GEOL&101 Introduction to Physical Geology - Introduction to Physical
Geology w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
GEOL108 Fossils and the History of Life - Fossils and the History of Life w/
Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
NUTR&101 Human Nutrition - Human Nutrition (Biological, Earth, and
Physical Sciences)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 66@@@
---LEFT---
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&100 Survey of Anthropology - Survey of Anthropology
(Anthropology Specialization Elective Course & Multicultural Course)
ANTH&210 Indigenous Peoples of North America - Indigenous Peoples of
North America (Anthropology Specialization Elective Course & Multicultural
Course)
ANTH&237 Human Osteology - Human Osteology (Anthropology
Specialization Elective Course)
ANTH&245 Primatology - Primatology (Anthropology Specialization Elective
Course)
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Anthropology Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Humanities Distribution or
Social Sciences Distribution to fulfill up to three requirements
simultaneously - multicultural requirement, one specialization
requirement, and one distribution requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&100 Survey of Anthropology - Survey of Anthropology
(Anthropology Specialization Core Course, Social Science Distribution, &
Multicultural Course)
ANTH&206 Cultural Anthropology - Cultural Anthropology (Anthropology
Specialization Core Course, Social Science Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
ANTH&207 Linguistic Anthropology - Linguistic Anthropology
(Anthropology Specialization Core Course, Humanities Distribution or Social
Sciences Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ANTH&210 Indigenous Peoples of North America - Indigenous Peoples of
North America (Anthropology Elective Course, Social Sciences Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
---RIGHT---
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Anthropology Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 67@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ANTH&100 - Survey of Anthropology
General Information
A survey of the subfields of physical anthropology, archaeology, anthropological
linguistics and sociocultural anthropology through the examination of selected
problems in human biological and cultural evolution. An introduction to the
discipline of anthropology that asks what it means to be human. (Multicultural
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Course recommended to be taken prior to or concurrently. If you are not
comfortable with writing, please consider taking ENGLC101 Tools for
Reading & Writing to support you in this class.
College Preparatory
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Course recommended to be taken prior to or concurrently.
---RIGHT---
ANTH&204 - Archaeology
General Information
Introduction to the study of the prehistory of humankind as revealed by material
remains. Covers excavation techniques, analyzing and dating artifacts, and a survey
of world prehistory from the beginning of culture to the appearance of writing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I.
ANTH&205 - Biological Anthropology
General Information
Study of the origins and adaptations of the human species. An examination of the
fossil record and living populations of monkeys, apes and humans.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in the course.

@@@PAGE 68@@@
---LEFT---
ANTH&206 - Cultural Anthropology
General Information
An analysis of the social and cultural variation of humankind. Comparison of how
various western and non-western peoples live.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in the course.
ANTH&207 - Linguistic Anthropology
General Information
Introduction to linguistic methods and theories used within anthropology. Topics
include the structure of language, anatomy and evolution of language, the
relationship between language and culture, the study of language variation and of
language change. The linguistic database in the course is both historical and
cross-cultural.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I
---RIGHT---
ANTH&210 - Indigenous Peoples of North America
General Information
An examination of the diversity of cultures among the Indigenous Peoples of North
America, this course is an ethnographic survey of Native American societies before
European contact and includes discussion of contemporary issues.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I,

@@@PAGE 69@@@
---LEFT---
ANTH&237 - Human Osteology
General Information
An introduction to the comparative study of human and other mammalian
skeletons as used for identification in forensic and biological anthropology. The
course explores various methods of identifying human skeletons (from others)
including bone form, age, sex, and state at death. Other topics include dental
analyses, bone formation, and preservation.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Complete at least 0 of the following courses:
• ANTH&205 - Biological Anthropology
OR BIOL&100 - Survey of Biology
OR BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
---RIGHT---
ANTH&245 - Primatology
General Information
Examines the origins and evolutionary trends of primates, from modern
relationships to growth, development, and behavioral adaptations. Course also
covers primate ecology and conservation. Uses lectures, multimedia, and readings
to compare and contrast the major groups of non-human primates and consider
their relationships to humans. Course will provide perspective on the status of
endangered species with whom we may share a future as well as a past. Field trips
included.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I.
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Complete ANY of the following Courses:
• ANTH&205 - Biological Anthropology
OR BIOL&100 - Survey of Biology

@@@PAGE 70@@@
---LEFT---
ANTH299 - Independent Study
General Information
A variable credit (1-5) course based on independent study contracted between an
instructor and a student. The independent study will provide students an
opportunity to pursue an anthropological area of interest in depth beyond what
regular courses can provide. The emphasis may be field research, scholarly
research, or a combination.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Anthropology
Earn a minimum Grade of B+ in the following:
• ANTH&100 - Survey of Anthropology
and Instructor permission and a written contract between the instructor,
student and instructional administrator, describing the nature and method
of the independent study.
Art Department
For information on our Art department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/art/
Art Department Chair: Marit Berg, - mberg@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 71@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 72@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Art Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Art Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Art Specialization provides students with a comprehensive foundation in
studio arts and art appreciation. Students who complete this specialization will be
well-equipped to pursue a Bachelors of Art, Bachelors of Fine Art, or specialized
Art and Design School. Alternatively, they may choose to enter a variety of
art-related fields. Career opportunities include positions in museums, commercial
art galleries, graphic design, garment industries, marketing, and production design.
This specialization prepares students to transfer with junior standing into a
bachelor’s degree program at most Washington State public baccalaureate
institutions. Students planning to transfer to institutions outside Washington
should consult with their intended transfer school to ensure course compatibility
and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 ART
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Art Specialization Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Foundation Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART&100 - Art Appreciation
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
• ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing
Art Media Courses
Complete two art media courses preferably both the same media type at
the beginning and advanced level.
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Art Specialization Media Courses
Final Art Media Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART299 - Special Problems in Art
Art Folio
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART297 - Folio Preparation
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.

@@@PAGE 73@@@
---LEFT---
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Recommended Course:
MATH&107 Math in Society - Math in Society
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Art Specialization Foundation Courses (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART&100 - Art Appreciation
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
---RIGHT---
AND
Additional Humanities Course (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Art Specialization Foundation Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing
AND
Art Specialization Media Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Art Specialization Media Courses
College-Level Electives (10 credits)

@@@PAGE 74@@@
---LEFT---
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Art Specialization Media Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Art Specialization Media Courses
AND
Art Specialization Folio
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART297 - Folio Preparation
AND
Art Specialization Final Media Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART299 - Special Problems in Art
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Art Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Humanities Distribution to fulfill
up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ART&100 Art Appreciation - Art Appreciation (Art Specialization Foundation
Course, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
CHIN&121 Chinese I - Chinese I (Humanities Distribution & Multicultural
Course)
JAPN&121 Japanese I - Japanese I (Humanities Distribution & Multicultural
Course)
SPAN&121 Spanish I - Spanish I (Humanities Distribution & Multicultural
Course)
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Art Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 75@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ART&100 - Art Appreciation
General Information
An introduction to understanding and appreciating the visual arts (fine arts, crafts,
architecture, and new media) from a global perspective. Designed for non-art
majors. A variety of learning approaches include lectures, slides, videos, guest
artists, field trips, demonstrations, and hands-on participation.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
General Information
This course is intended to introduce students to the basic elements of design in
two-dimensional space. Using a series of progressive projects, assignments will
feature basic formal elements and how they relate to graphic art. The organizing
compositional principles of proportion, movement, tension, balance, rhythm, and
harmony will be analyzed in examples of art. Discussions concerning line, plane,
form, texture, color, time, and shape are studied individually and in combination for
the final project. A student’s individual cultural background will be a resource for
inspiration. Students can expect to work about eight hours each week outside of
class on their project assignments. Recommend prior to Graphic Design,
Printmaking, Photography, and Painting classes. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
---RIGHT---
ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
General Information
Using a series of progressive projects, this course is intended to introduce students
to the basic elements of design in three-dimensional space. Several projects will be
assigned that will feature these basic elements and how they relate to sculpture.
Also, there will be discussions concerning line, plane, form, texture, color, time, and
shape and how these elements combine to influence the final project. The
organizing principles of proportion, movement, tension, balance, rhythm, and
harmony will also be explored. Materials that we will use may include wood, metal,
plaster, clay, cardboard, paper, string, and plastic. Students will receive instruction
in the safe operation of tools and equipment to be used in class. Students are
expected to work about eight hours each week outside of class periods on their
project assignments. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
ART104 - Introduction to Digital Art
General Information
This course introduces students to the fundamentals of digital art, including design
principles, digital file management, and output techniques. Through hands-on
projects using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, students will explore the
possibilities of raster and vector graphics while developing essential computing
skills such as layers, selection tools, and editing techniques. The course also covers
best practices for preparing digital work for accurate hardcopy printing. This
course is strongly recommended for students interested in digital art careers
including graphic design, animation, and video production.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements

@@@PAGE 76@@@
---LEFT---
ART105 - Beginning Drawing
General Information
Foundation in drawing from observation. Emphasis on form, value, atmospheric,
and linear perspective through various drawing techniques and media.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
ART125 - Beginning Graphic Design
General Information
The course is an introduction to the visual communication of graphic design. This
course will cover the graphic design process with concept sketching, composition,
color theory, typography and layout. Computer applications will be used to explore
and develop the use of the practical design elements as required for specific
projects, along with current methods to communicate design objectives.
Performance/Skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
---RIGHT---
ART130 - Beginning Ceramics
General Information
This course is a studio-based introduction to foundational ceramic materials and
techniques. Students will learn a variety of ceramic processes including hand
building, wheel throwing, surface decoration and glazing. Lectures and activities
will introduce students to historical and contemporary works of art,
three-dimensional design concepts and approaches to self-expression allowing
students to develop critical skills for analysis and discussion of artwork.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Art Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
• ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing
ART145 - Beginning Photography
General Information
Traditional photography explores basic black and white film photography. Students
will learn the technology of 35mm SLR film cameras (TCC has cameras that can be
checked out), processing black and white film, and developing black and white
prints. In addition, alternative photo processes, such as cyanotype and pinhole
photography will be introduced. Attention is given to the aesthetics of
photographic imagery, composition, lighting, and historical context. Performance/
skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
ART147 - Beginning Digital Photography
General Information
This course will use the digital camera along with the computer photo editing
applications to produce photographic images. Students will need a digital camera
equipped with a manual mode operation to adjust the exposure. Students will learn
about visual settings for the photographic image along with the tools and
techniques to utilize post-production methods for digital photography.
Assignments will address design aesthetics and the historical context of
photography. Performance/Skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5

@@@PAGE 77@@@
---LEFT---
ART150 - Beginning Printmaking
General Information
Studies in traditional and contemporary print processes including relief, etching,
and lithographic methods. Historical and contemporary print developments serve
as background material for technical application. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
ART155 - Beginning Painting
General Information
Introductory course exploring the principles of observational painting. Lectures
and demonstrations include an introduction to composition, paint mixing,
techniques in brush applications, and color theory. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
ART170 - Beginning Sculpture
General Information
Beginning Sculpture explores the aesthetic and conceptual possibilities of
three-dimensional form and space. Using basic construction techniques with
materials such as wood, clay, found objects, and cast bronze, students will learn the
appropriate language, tools, and processes covering a broad range of sculptural
concepts. Emphasis will be placed on traditional materials, technical information,
and personal expression. In addition, research on contemporary artists and theory/
criticism will culminate into writings, discussions, critiques, and presentations.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Art Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
• ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing
---RIGHT---
ART180 - Art for Elementary Education
General Information
The course is designed for prospective K-6 educators as a lecture/workshop
structured to provide students an opportunity to explore materials and techniques
suitable for classroom use. Imaginative art experiences and the nature of creativity
are stressed and linked to other disciplines. Includes planning and assessment
components directed at art education.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
ART201 - History of Western Art: Ancient
General Information
An introductory survey of Western art's foundation and early development. Art
and architecture are covered from Prehistoric times through the ancient Middle
East, Egyptian, Aegean, Greek, Etruscan, Roman, Early Christian, and Byzantine
periods. Emphasis is given to historical and cultural contexts.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101.

@@@PAGE 78@@@
---LEFT---
ART202 - History of Western Art: Medieval &
Renaissance
General Information
An introductory survey of Western art from approximately 400-1600 AD. From
the Late Antique world's legacy, painting, sculpture, architecture, and crafts are
covered from Germanic and Celtic tribes through the Carolingians and Medieval
Romanesque and Gothic periods, on to Italian and Northern Renaissance art, and
ending with the Mannerists.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101.
ART203 - History of Western Art: Baroque through
Modern
General Information
An overview of the influences on, and development of, Western art, architecture,
and craft from 1600 AD to the present. Follows Baroque and Rococo through the
French Revolution to the emergence of Neoclassicism, Romanticism, Realism,
Impressionism, and Post-Impressionism. Twentieth-century and later art is studied
in the context of global diversity.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101.
---RIGHT---
ART205 - Advanced Drawing
General Information
Further development of drawing skills with emphasis on composition, new media,
and visual communication concepts. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing
ART225 - Advanced Graphic Design
General Information
This course will build on learning outcomes from the beginning course in graphic
design. Students will expand their understanding of visual communication used in
the design process. This course will have a comprehensive view of design
applications for composition, typography, color management, layout, and research
development. Computer applications will be used to develop and implement
designs for project completion. Performance/Skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Beginning Graphic Design
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART125 - Beginning Graphic Design

@@@PAGE 79@@@
---LEFT---
ART230 - Advanced Ceramics
General Information
This course builds upon foundational skills learned in ART 130 and allows for
refinement of technical goals and self-expression. Glaze formulation and kiln firing
will be introduced. Emphasis is on creative problem solving and critical thinking.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Beginning Ceramics
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART130 - Beginning Ceramics
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
Art Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
• ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing
---RIGHT---
ART245 - Advanced Photography
General Information
This course builds upon technical skills learned in Beginning Photography and
allows for refinement of technical goals and self-expression. Advanced photo
studio techniques will be demonstrated in light evaluation, lighting management,
composition, film exposure, and darkroom printing skills. Additional alternative
photography processes will be introduced. Art projects will be introduced
emphasizing creative problem solving, developing technical photography skills, and
expanding critical thinking skills regarding the assignment's objectives. Cameras
are available to be checked out from TCC. Performance/skills course
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART145 - Beginning Photography
ART247 - Advanced Digital Photography
General Information
This course will provide students with advanced instruction in the digital camera
and computer photo editing applications to create photographic image prints.
Building on the proficient use of the digital camera, students will learn advanced
techniques including digital photography formats and advance post-production
techniques. Continued learning from the previous course will include advanced use
of the manual mode and printing techniques. Assignments will address design
aesthetics and the historical context of photography. Performance/Skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ART147 - Beginning Digital Photography

@@@PAGE 80@@@
---LEFT---
ART250 - Advanced Printmaking
General Information
Expand on basic printmaking techniques and methods learned in ART-150 with
emphasis on advanced color applications in relief, intaglio, and screenprint. A
continuing study of historical and cultural roles in printmaking with attention to
individual artistic contributions. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART150 - Beginning Printmaking
ART255 - Advanced Painting
General Information
Students will further develop their techniques in painting. Knowledge of paint
applications, color theory, and composition will be expanded upon in this course.
Students will analyze symbolism and visual concepts through a series of
assignments. Research of art historical works and the examination of
contemporary painting will be explored.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART155 - Beginning Painting
---RIGHT---
ART270 - Advanced Sculpture
General Information
This course builds upon technical skills learned in ART 170 and allows for
refinement of technical goals and self-expression. Advanced studio techniques will
be demonstrated in woodworking, metal fabrication, paper engineering, mold
making, and metal casting. Art projects will be introduced that emphasize creative
problem-solving, developing technical sculptural skills, and expanding critical
thinking. Performance/skills course
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Beginning Sculpture
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART170 - Beginning Sculpture
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
Art Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
• ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
• ART105 - Beginning Drawing

@@@PAGE 81@@@
---LEFT---
ART297 - Folio Preparation
General Information
Students will prepare a portfolio for application to a transfer institution. Students
will be advised regarding their selections of samples, revisions and skill areas that
need further attention. Students will learn to photograph samples, mat and frame
appropriate pieces, develop directed projects to improve the overall quality and
finalize a professional portfolio.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• ART102 - Two-Dimensional Design
AND ART103 - Three-Dimensional Design
AND ART105 - Beginning Drawing
Additional Comments:
Students must be in the Associate in Arts, DTA - Art Specialization program.
Astronomy Department
For information on our Astronomy department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/astronomy
Astronomy Department Chair: Ivan Ramirez - iramirez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
ART299 - Special Problems in Art
General Information
This course is intended as a capstone course for students seeking an AA with an
Art Specialization, and non degree seeking students who wish to focus on a specific
discipline in depth. Students should first complete the first two courses in the
specified discipline before advancing to the 299 level. These courses are an
extension of existing course sequences and are subject to the same fees as the
individual courses within the sequence chosen.
299A Ceramics;
299B Design;
299C Drawing;
299D Figure Drawing;
299E Painting;
299F Photography;
299G Printmaking;
299H Sculpture;
299I Digital Photography;
299J Graphic Design.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 3 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Art Sequence
Prerequisite to registration for any 299 class is the satisfactory
completion of the entire course sequence offered by the department in
that particular medium. Example: 299C, Advanced Problems in Drawing,
has a prerequisite of ART-105 and 106.

@@@PAGE 82@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 83@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and
Astronomy Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and Astronomy Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 -Physics and Astronomy Specialization
provides a well-rounded foundation for students planning to transfer to a
bachelor's program in physics, astronomy, or a closely related field.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits PHST2AS Code Fall 2025
90 PHYS_ASTRO
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above statement.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
---RIGHT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities or Social Science (15 Credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (28 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses (10 credits)

@@@PAGE 84@@@
---LEFT---
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Physics (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Electives (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 12 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer institution
and may include prerequisites for major courses (e.g.,
pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific general
education.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Recommended Courses:
ASTR&110 The Solar System - The Solar System
ASTR&115 Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos - Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos
CHEM&163 General Chemistry w/Lab III - General Chemistry w/ Lab III
CS142 Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I - Java Programming
for Engineers and Scientists I
ENGR&240 Engineering Computations - Engineering Computations
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the Multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and Astronomy Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 85@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ASTR&110 - The Solar System
General Information
Study of the structure and composition of the Solar System. Topics discussed
include the history of Astronomy, the appearance of the nighttime sky, orbital
motion, gravity, the nature of light, theories of Solar System formation, and the
characteristics of the planets, moons, asteroids, and comets that inhabit the Solar
System. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
ASTR&115 - Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos
General Information
Study of the structure and composition of the universe including stars and galaxies.
Topics discussed include the theories of the formation of stars, galaxies, and the
universe; the nature of light and telescopes; the characteristics of the Sun; the
cycle of star formation, life and death; the types of stars and galaxies; and the
application of physical principles to making astronomical measurements.
Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 86@@@
---LEFT---
Atmospheric Science Department
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 87@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Atmospheric
Science Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Atmospheric Science Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Atmospheric Science Specialization
provides a well-rounded foundation to support students who wish to major in
atmospheric science or meteorology.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits PHST2AS Code Fall 2025
90 ATMOS SCIE
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
---RIGHT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (28 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 88@@@
---LEFT---
Chemistry Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
Engineering Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Electives (7 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 7 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer institution
and may include prerequisites for major courses (e.g.,
pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific general
education.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the Multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria,
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Atmospheric Science Specialization
Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
Biology Department
For information on our Biology department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/biology
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 89@@@
---LEFT---
Biology Department Chair: Heather Cushman - hcushman@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 90@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 91@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Biology, DTA/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Biology, DTA/MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate in Biology is a state-recognized Direct Transfer Agreement / Major
Related Program (DTA/MRP) designed for students planning to transfer to a
four-year institution to major in biology or related fields in the natural sciences.
Graduates of this degree enter their transfer institution with junior standing with
most or all lower-division general education requirements satisfied. Students may
need to complete additional coursework during their junior and senior years,
depending on the requirements of the transfer institution.
Admission to specific natural science programs is competitive and not guaranteed.
Requirements such as minimum GPA, prerequisite courses, and application
deadlines vary by institution and should be reviewed early in the planning process.
Students are strongly encouraged to work with an advisor to develop an academic
plan that meets both TCC degree requirements and transfer institution
admissions. Students should also consult with their intended transfer institution on
which courses best support or may be required as prerequisites for the institution
or major. Early and careful planning is essential, especially for sequential courses
and prerequisites offered on limited schedules.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 GEBBIAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Distribution Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
---RIGHT---
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
OR ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Students are encouraged to check with their transfer institution early in
their decision process to confirm Quantitative Skills requirement.
Humanities (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at last two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (30 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biology Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
• BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
Important Note: Beginning Spring 2026, this Biology course sequence is
undergoing a redesign. The order of the sequence will change to: BIOL&
222 → BIOL& 221 → BIOL& 223. Additionally, BIOL& 160 will no
longer be required as a prerequisite for this sequence . Students
beginning this degree in Fall 2025 or later should not enroll in BIOL&
160 unless specifically advised to do so. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM)
Pathway Advising.
AND
Chemistry Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I

@@@PAGE 92@@@
---LEFT---
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
Multicultural Course (5 credit)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Electives (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College-Level Electives
Complete 15 credits of any college-level courses.
Recommended Courses:
CHEM&140 General Chemistry Prep w/Lab - General Chemistry Prep w/
Lab
MATH&141 Precalculus I - Precalculus I
MATH&142 Precalculus II - Precalculus II
These courses are prerequisite courses for required courses.
Program Map
Biology Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
---RIGHT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Biology
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Biology Specialization
Catalog Description
The Biology Specialization of the Associate in Science Transfer (AS-T) Track 1
provides a strong academic foundation for students intending to major in biological
sciences, including microbiology and molecular biology, at a baccalaureate
institution. TCC also offers the Associate in Biology, DTA/MRP, which may be more
appropriate for students in certain situations. Students are encouraged to meet
with a Biology advisor to discuss which degree is recommended.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LRST1AS Code Fall 2025
90 BIOLOGY
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.

@@@PAGE 93@@@
---LEFT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Biology Sequence (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Biology Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
---RIGHT---
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
• BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
Important Note: Beginning Spring 2026, this Biology course sequence is
undergoing a redesign. The order of the sequence will change to: BIOL&
222 → BIOL& 221 → BIOL& 223. Additionally, BIOL& 160 will no longer
be required as a prerequisite for this sequence . Students beginning this
degree in Fall 2025 or later should not enroll in BIOL& 160 unless
specifically advised to do so. Click here to connect with an advisor for this
degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway Advising.
Chemistry Sequence (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses (30 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&263 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab III
Additional Comments:
Electives (10 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 10 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer institution
and may include prerequisites for major courses (e.g.,
pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific general
education.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Recommended Courses:
PHYS&114 General Physics I - General Physics I
PHYS&115 General Physics II - General Physics II
PHYS&221 Engineering Physics - Mechanics - Engineering Physics -
Mechanics
PHYS&222 Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism - Engineering
Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses

@@@PAGE 94@@@
---LEFT---
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Biology Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
Degree Map Name
To Transfer
Total Degree Map Credits
102
Degree Map Effective Catalog Year
-
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 15 0
Requirement Select
• CHEM&140 - General Chemistry Prep w/Lab
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• MATH&141 - Precalculus I
• AND MATH41 - Co-requisite for Pre-Calculus - MATH&
141
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 10
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Winter 17 0
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• AND ENGLC101 - Tools for Reading & Writing
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 7
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• MATH&142 - Precalculus II
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Spring 15 0
Requirement Select
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No

@@@PAGE 95@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Summer 10 0
Requirement Select
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• Humanities Distribution Courses
OR
• Social Science Distribution Courses
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 2 Fall 10 0
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 2 Winter 15 0
Requirement Select
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No

@@@PAGE 96@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 2 Spring 15 0
Requirement Select
• BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CHEM&263 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab III
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• Humanities Distribution Courses
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 2 Summer 5 0
Requirement Select
• Social Science Distribution Courses
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Total General Education Credits Total Major Credits
0 0
Total Minor Credits Total Elective Credits
0 0

@@@PAGE 97@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
BIOL&100 - Survey of Biology
General Information
An introduction to biological principles. Topics include: scientific method; scientific
literacy; basic cellular anatomy and biochemical processes; evolution and genetics;
diversity of life; and ecology and environmental issues. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
General Information
An introductory cell biology course primarily for students preparing for allied
health professions. Major concepts of cell biology will be introduced, including the
chemistry of life, the structure, reproduction, and metabolism of cells, genetics,
and evolutionary biology. Lab included. Recent high school chemistry or
introductory-level college chemistry is recommended before taking this course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
---RIGHT---
BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
General Information
This course is a one-quarter class of human anatomy and physiology. This course
offers a brief overview of the human body for the non-science major. It covers
some basics of chemistry and cells and then outlines all the major systems of the
human body. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.

@@@PAGE 98@@@
---LEFT---
BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
General Information
Introduction to the evolutionary and ecological processes involved in the
generation of our planet's biodiversity, including review of patterns and processes
that influence the origin, evolution, distribution and abundance of living things.
First of a three quarter sequence (BIOL&-221, 222, 223) designed for science
majors. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
or be concurrently enrolled in CHEM&161.
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
Important Note
Upcoming Change: Biology Redesign
Beginning Spring 2026, the Biology for majors course sequence is
undergoing a redesign. The order of the sequence will change to: BIOL&
222 → BIOL& 221 → BIOL& 223.
Effective Summer 2026, the prerequisite for this course will change to:
BIOL&222 Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology with a minimum
grade of C and CHEM&162 General Chemistry w/Lab II with a minimum
grade of C (may be taken concurrently)
Click here to connect with an advisor for Biology: Science, Engineering, &
Mathematics (SEM) Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular
Biology
General Information
Introduction to the structures and functions of biological molecules; anatomy of
prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells; cell metabolism and metabolic diversity;
molecular genetics and genomics. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
or be concurrently enrolled in CHEM&162.
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
Important Note
Upcoming Change: Biology Redesign
Beginning Spring 2026, the Biology for majors course sequence is
undergoing a redesign. The order of the sequence will change to: BIOL&
222 → BIOL& 221 → BIOL& 223.
Effective Spring 2026, the prerequisite for this course will change to:
CHEM&161 General Chemistry w/Lab I with a minimum grade of C
Click here to connect with an advisor for Biology: Science, Engineering, &
Mathematics (SEM) Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 99@@@
---LEFT---
BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
General Information
Introduction to the structures and functions of eukaryotic organisms with
particular attention to animal and plant anatomy, physiology, and development.
Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Important Note:
Upcoming Change: Biology Redesign
Beginning Spring 2026, the Biology for majors course sequence is
undergoing a redesign. The order of the sequence will change to: BIOL&
222 → BIOL& 221 → BIOL& 223.
Effective Fall 2026, the prerequisite for this course will change to:
BIOL&221 Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and Biodiversity with a
minimum grade of C and CHEM&163 General Chemistry w/Lab III with a
minimum grade of C (may be taken concurrently)
Click here to connect with an advisor for Biology: Science, Engineering, &
Mathematics (SEM) Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
General Information
The first quarter of a standard two quarter sequence in human anatomy and
physiology. The course reviews basic molecular and cell biology. New material
covers histology, the integumentary system, the skeletal system, the muscular
system, the nervous system and the special senses. Laboratory sessions include the
study of microscopy, histology, anatomical models, preserved bones and human
cadavers.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
OR BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular
Biology
• CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
OR CHEM&140 - General Chemistry Prep w/Lab
OR CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
General Information
The second quarter of a standard two quarter sequence in human anatomy and
physiology. The course will examine the endocrine system, blood, the
cardiovascular system, the lymphatic system, the immune system, the respiratory
system, the digestive system, the urinary system, and the reproductive system.
Laboratory sessions include the study of histology, anatomical models, and the
human cadaver.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1

@@@PAGE 100@@@
---LEFT---
BIOL&260 - General Microbiology
General Information
An introduction to the study of microbiology including microbial structures,
metabolism, genetics, classification, pathogenesis, and host defense. The emphasis
is on human bacterial and viral pathogens. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
or higher level chemistry course with a minimum grade of C
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
OR BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular
Biology
BIOL105 - Fossils and the History of Life
General Information
Introduction to the geological and biological processes and events that generated
the amazing record of life on earth. Topics include plate tectonics, rocks,
fossilization processes, principles of evolution, and a survey of the history of life.
Lab includes studying rock and fossil specimens and involves field trips. This course
is the same as GEOL-108. Students may receive credit for either BIOL-105 or
GEOL-108, but not both.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
---RIGHT---
BIOL110 - Ecology
General Information
An introduction to the study of Ecology; the study of the interaction between the
living components of the earth with their surrounding environment. Topics include
the hierarchical structure of ecologyspecies, populations, communities, and
ecosystems. Examples will be both classical ecological studies as well as current
issues in ecology, with focus on the Pacific Northwest. Laboratories and field trips
included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
BIOL125 - Biology in the Field
General Information
An intensive introductory course covering the fundamental principles governing
biological assemblages from the species level to communities, as exemplified by the
different ecosystems found in the Pacific Northwest. Laboratory activities include
learning select biological field methods. Extended field trip(s) required; exact
itinerary varies quarterly.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 5 12
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.

@@@PAGE 101@@@
---LEFT---
BIOL140 - Marine Biology
General Information
Introductory marine biology designed for non-majors. Learn how marine
organisms are categorized, about their habitats, how they survive, their ecological
relationships, and environmental concerns. Laboratories and field trips included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
BIOL179 - Special Topics in Biology
General Information
This topic course will explore one varying topic in biology. The specific biological
topic will be explored using a variety of methods which may include lectures,
discussions, seminars, research projects, field work, laboratory work, or all-day to
overnight field trips. Example topics include: genetics, conservation biology, the
history of life, or other current topics in biology.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
---RIGHT---
BIOL280 - Human Cadaver Prosection
General Information
This is a two-credit laboratory dissection course. Students will dissect a human
cadaver to include removal of skin and superficial fascia, isolation of selected
muscles, and opening of thoracic and abdomino-pelvic cavities. Students will also
participate in the annual Surgical Demonstration event and present selected
surgical procedures to the public.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
and instructor recommendation and instructor permission.
BIOL294 - Biology Research
General Information
Students will work as part of a research team on a specific research project for the
quarter. The course will involve either laboratory or field study depending on the
project, evaluation of primary research papers relevant to the project, and
presentation of project results.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lab 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
OR BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular
Biology
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
OR BIOL&260 - General Microbiology

@@@PAGE 102@@@
---LEFT---
Botany Department
For more information on our Environmental Science department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/environmentalscience
Environmental Science Department Chair: Kristen Harrison - kharrison@tacomacc.edu
Courses
BOT101 - General Botany
General Information
Presents basic concepts of plant biology to non-science majors including plant
characteristics, biodiversity, growth, reproduction, and ecology. Students discuss
current topics in agriculture, horticulture, medicine, ethnobotany, biotechnology,
ecology, conservation, and environmental issues. Labs include lab experiments,
greenhouse projects, field trips, and habitat restoration work in the TCC Nature
Area.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
BOT179 - Special Topics in Botany
General Information
This course will explore various topics in plant biology using a variety of methods,
including seminars, laboratory experiments, lectures, research projects,
presentations, field work, and all-day or overnight field trips depending on the
quarter offered. Topics will vary by quarter. A course may include topics such as
ethnobotany, plant taxonomy, etc.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 103@@@
---LEFT---
Business Department
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 104@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Business -
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Business - Entrepreneurship and Small Business
Management Specialization
Catalog Description
That Associate in Applied Science in Business provides a training option in two
focused areas: Global Logistics and Entrepreneurship and Small Business
Management . The program provides essential skills in customer service,
marketing, and managing employees. Students will learn how to improve
interpersonal communication, become a leader and motivators for employees and
peers, solve problems creatively, and make effective decisions. This training may be
used to develop knowledge and skills that will help students be competitive for a
new job, or job retention and advancement in a current position.
TCC’s Business program leads to an Associate in Applied Sciences degree. The
program’s structure is progressive, leading to three certificates for increasing
levels of job responsibility. Three specialized certificates are also available.
Upon completion of this AAS degree program, students may continue their
education and work towards a Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied
Management - Human Resource Management Specialization or Bachelor of
Applied Science in Applied Management - Project Management Specialization at
Tacoma Community College or another business-related field at several
Washington State Community and Technical colleges. Students intending to
transfer to a four-year university to pursue a bachelor’s degree may be required to
take additional courses depending on the requirements of the particular program
or degree. Students who plan to transfer should meet with the program chair to
plan their course selection and sequence.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits BAMBUAPT Code Fall 2025
93 ENTREPRENR
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 93 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher
to count towards degree completion except where otherwise
noted.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
---RIGHT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Customer Service Certificate (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS102 - Customer Service
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Microsoft Word & Excel Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Microsoft Word & Excel Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Marketing Certificate (23 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Mathematics Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
• MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Bachelor-bound students are recommended to take MATH147 College
Algebra for Business and Economics or MATH&146 Introduction to
Statistics in lieu of BUS110.

@@@PAGE 105@@@
---LEFT---
Management Certificate (18 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
• BUS165 - Human Resource Management
• BUS232 - Introduction to Project Management
Communication Studies Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Core Requirements (40 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (20 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
OR ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
• BUS&201 - Business Law
• BUS150 - Global Business
• BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
• CU203 - Excel II
Bachelor-bound students are recommended to take ACCT& 201.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Specialization Courses (20 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
• BUS260 - Small Business Operations
• BUS295 - Entrepreneurial & Innovative Mindset
Business Internship (5 credits)
Complete a business internship or 5 credits from approved elective list.
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Business Internship Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS290 - Work Internship
OR
Electives Options
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Associate in Applied Science in Business - Approved
Elective List
---RIGHT---
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Business - Entrepreneurship and Small Business
Management Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
Degree Map Name
Business: Entrepreneurship - Face to Face
Total Degree Map Credits
95
Degree Map Effective Catalog Year
-
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 12 0
Requirement Select
• BUS102 - Customer Service
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• Customer Service Certificate (Milestone)
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free You have earned the Customer
Text) Service Certificate
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No

@@@PAGE 106@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours 55
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Winter 17 0
Requirement Select
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• ENGLC101 - Tools for Reading & Writing
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours 55
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Spring 15 0
Requirement Select
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS232 - Introduction to Project Management
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No

@@@PAGE 107@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
-
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free You have earned the Accounting
Text) Office Associate Certificate
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 13 0
Requirement Select
• BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS150 - Global Business
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 3
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
-
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free You have earned the Marketing
Text) Certificate
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Winter 12 0
Requirement Select
• BUS&201 - Business Law
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS260 - Small Business Operations
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 2 Spring 13 0

@@@PAGE 108@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
• BUS295 - Entrepreneurial & Innovative Mindset
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS165 - Human Resource Management
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 3
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours 33
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS290 - Work Internship
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Summer 13 0
Requirement Select
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• CU203 - Excel II
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 3
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Total General Education Credits Total Major Credits
0 90
Total Minor Credits Total Elective Credits
0 0

@@@PAGE 109@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Business - Global Logistics
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Business - Global Logistics Specialization
Catalog Description
That Associate in Applied Science in Business provides a training option in two
focused areas: Global Logistics and Entrepreneurship and Small Business
Management . The program provides essential skills in customer service,
marketing, and managing employees. Students will learn how to improve
interpersonal communication, become a leader and motivators for employees and
peers, solve problems creatively, and make effective decisions. This training may be
used to develop knowledge and skills that will help students be competitive for a
new job, or job retention and advancement in a current position.
TCC’s Business program leads to an Associate in Applied Sciences degree. The
program’s structure is progressive, leading to three certificates for increasing
levels of job responsibility. Three specialized certificates are also available.
Upon completion of this AAS degree program, students may continue their
education and work towards a Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied
Management - Human Resource Management Specialization or Bachelor of
Applied Science in Applied Management - Project Management Specialization at
Tacoma Community College or another business-related field at several
Washington State Community and Technical colleges. Students intending to
transfer to a four-year university to pursue a bachelor’s degree may be required to
take additional courses depending on the requirements of the particular program
or degree. Students who plan to transfer should meet with the program chair to
plan their course selection and sequence.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits BAMBUAPT Code Fall 2025
94 GLOBAL_LOG
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 94 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher
to count towards degree completion, except where otherwise
noted.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
Customer Service Certificate (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS102 - Customer Service
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Microsoft Word & Excel Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Microsoft Word & Excel Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Marketing Certificate (23 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Mathematics Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
• MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Bachelor-bound students are recommended to take MATH147 College
Algebra for Business and Economics or MATH&146 Introduction to
Statistics in lieu of BUS110.
Management Certificate (18 credits)
Type

@@@PAGE 110@@@
---LEFT---
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
• BUS165 - Human Resource Management
• BUS232 - Introduction to Project Management
Communication Studies Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Core Requirements (40 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (20 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
OR ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
• BUS&201 - Business Law
• BUS150 - Global Business
• BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
• CU203 - Excel II
Bachelor-bound students are recommended to take ACCT& 201.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Specialization Courses (21 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• LOG102 - Transportation & Distribution
• LOG104 - Applied Warehousing and Inventory Management
• LOG108 - International Trade and Logistics Management
• LOG115 - Logistics Security and Risk Management
Business Internship (5 credits)
Complete a business internship or 5 credits from approved elective list.
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Business Internship Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS290 - Work Internship
OR
Electives Options
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Associate in Applied Science in Business - Approved
Elective List
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
---RIGHT---
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Business - Global Logistics Specialization Program
Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
Degree Map Name
Business: Entrepreneurship - Face to Face
Total Degree Map Credits
95
Degree Map Effective Catalog Year
-
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 12 0
Requirement Select
• BUS102 - Customer Service
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• Customer Service Certificate (Milestone)
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free You have earned the Customer
Text) Service Certificate
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No

@@@PAGE 111@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours 55
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Winter 17 0
Requirement Select
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• ENGLC101 - Tools for Reading & Writing
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours 55
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Spring 15 0
Requirement Select
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS232 - Introduction to Project Management
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No

@@@PAGE 112@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
-
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free You have earned the Accounting
Text) Office Associate Certificate
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 13 0
Requirement Select
• BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS150 - Global Business
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 3
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
-
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free You have earned the Marketing
Text) Certificate
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits -
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Winter 12 0
Requirement Select
• BUS&201 - Business Law
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS260 - Small Business Operations
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 2 Spring 13 0

@@@PAGE 113@@@
---LEFT---
Requirement Select
• BUS295 - Entrepreneurial & Innovative Mindset
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS165 - Human Resource Management
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 3
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours 33
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• BUS290 - Work Internship
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Summer 13 0
Requirement Select
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• CU203 - Excel II
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 3
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade C
Area Major
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Total General Education Credits Total Major Credits
0 90
Total Minor Credits Total Elective Credits
0 0

@@@PAGE 114@@@
---LEFT---
Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management -
Human Resource Management Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management - Human Resource
Management Specialization
Catalog Description
The Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management with a specialization in
Human Resource (HR) Management combines business fundamentals with
specialized HR expertise, empowering graduates to build on their associate degree
and prepare for roles focused on talent acquisition, employee relations, and
organizational development. This degree is well suited for those with backgrounds
in business, accounting, paralegal studies, human services, and other
business-related disciplines. Delivered in a hybrid format—combining online and
in-person instruction—it is designed to accommodate the needs of working adults.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits BAMAMBAS Code Fall 2025
180 HUMANRSCE
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Additional Comments:
Degree/Credit Requirement
Applicants must have completed one of the following with a cumulative GPA
of 2.5 or higher:
• An Associate of Applied Science (AAS) or equivalent degree, or
• At least 90 college-level credits from an accredited institution.
Note: Students who do not meet the GPA requirement(s) may petition for an
individual review by submitting a letter of explanation to the program chair.
Good Standing Requirement
Applicants must be in good standing (i.e., not currently suspended or
prohibited from attending TCC).
Note: Students with a history of academic dishonesty may petition for an
individual review by submitting a letter of explanation to the program chair.
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 180 credits in courses numbered 100 or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ TCC’s bachelor’s degree programs follow a 2+2
model, meaning students must complete an
associate degree—or a minimum of 90 transferable
---RIGHT---
credits—prior to admission into the bachelor’s
program. Therefore, students enrolled in these
programs are required to complete at least 25% of
the final 90 credits at TCC to meet residency
requirements.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be
considered for equivalency. TCC may also accept
transfer credits for professional/technical programs
if the credits are from an institution with a related
program accreditation. For more information, visit
Transfer Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in
Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or
higher to count towards degree completion except where
otherwise noted.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that
is applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found
here or by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
General Education Requirements (20 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS256 - Statistical Analysis
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Natural Sciences
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science
Applied Management Prerequisite Coursework (21-23 credits)

@@@PAGE 115@@@
---LEFT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Accounting Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
Required prior to taking BUS320.
Business Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
Required prior to BUS300.
Business Math Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU203 - Excel II
CU103 or CU105 with a minimum grade of C required prior to CU203.
CU203 with a minimum grade of B required prior to BUS320.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Applied Management Core Requirements (80-85 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Fall (10 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
• CMST320 - Professional and Organizational Communication
Second Quarter - Winter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS310 - Organizational and Interpersonal Behavior
• BUS320 - Managerial Accounting
• BUS360 - Fundamentals of Human Resources Management
Third Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS330 - Legal Environments in Business
• BUS340 - Financial Management
• BUS350 - Fundamentals of Project Management
Fourth Quarter - Fall (10 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS400 - Economics for Managers
• BUS442 - Intermediate Human Resource Management
Fifth Quarter - Winter (15 credits)
---RIGHT---
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS410 - Operations and Logistics
• BUS430 - Business Strategy and Sustainability
• BUS452 - Advanced Human Resource Management
Sixth Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PHIL320 - Ethical Decision Making
• BUS462 - Capstone: Human Resource Management
• BUS420 - Digital and Social Media Management
OR BUS399 - AM BAS Independent Study
Optional - Applied Management Internship (2-5 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Internship
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS480 - Applied Management Internship
Electives (52-59 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College- Level Electives
Complete college-level electives to reach 180 credit requirement
Complete additional elective courses numbered 100 or above as needed to
fulfill the 180 credit requirement for the degree. Elective coursework may
include applicable credits earned through an associate degree.
Recommended Course:
ACCT101 Practical Accounting I - Practical Accounting I
Program Map
Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management - Human Resource
Management Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 116@@@
---LEFT---
Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management -
Project Management Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management - Project Management
Specialization
Catalog Description
The Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management with a specialization in
Project Management integrates business fundamentals with advanced project
management skills, empowering students to advance their careers by developing
competencies in planning, executing, and overseeing projects. Delivered in a hybrid
format—combining online and in-person instruction—it is designed to
accommodate the needs of working adults.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits BAMAMBAS Code Fall 2025
180 PRJCTMGMT
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Degree/Credit Requirement
Applicants must have completed one of the following with a cumulative GPA
of 2.5 or higher:
• An Associate of Applied Science (AAS) or equivalent degree, or
• At least 90 college-level credits from an accredited institution.
Good Standing Requirement
Applicants must be in good standing with their current or previous college.
Note: Students who do not meet the requirement(s) may petition for an
individual review by submitting a letter of explanation to the program chair.
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 180 credits in courses numbered 100 or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ TCC’s bachelor’s degree programs follow a 2+2
model, meaning students must complete an
associate degree—or a minimum of 90 transferable
credits—prior to admission into the bachelor’s
program. Therefore, students enrolled in these
programs are required to complete at least 25% of
the final 90 credits at TCC to meet residency
requirements.
---RIGHT---
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be
considered for equivalency. TCC may also accept
transfer credits for professional/technical programs
if the credits are from an institution with a related
program accreditation. For more information, visit
Transfer Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in
Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or
higher to count towards degree completion except where
otherwise noted.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that
is applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found
here or by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
General Education Requirements (20 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
Course must completed with a minimum grade of C.
Quantitative Skills (5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS256 - Statistical Analysis
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Natural Sciences (5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science
Applied Management Prerequisite Coursework (21-23 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Accounting Course

@@@PAGE 117@@@
---LEFT---
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
Required prior to taking BUS320.
Business Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
Required prior to BUS300.
Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU203 - Excel II
CU103 or CU105 with a minimum grade of C required prior to CU203.
CU203 with a minimum grade of B required prior to BUS320.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Applied Management Core Requirement (80-85 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Fall (10 credts)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
• CMST320 - Professional and Organizational Communication
Second Quarter - Winter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS310 - Organizational and Interpersonal Behavior
• BUS320 - Managerial Accounting
• BUS360 - Fundamentals of Human Resources Management
Third Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS330 - Legal Environments in Business
• BUS340 - Financial Management
• BUS350 - Fundamentals of Project Management
Fourth Quarter - Fall (10 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS400 - Economics for Managers
• BUS441 - Intermediate Project Management
Fifth Quarter - Winter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS410 - Operations and Logistics
• BUS430 - Business Strategy and Sustainability
• BUS451 - Advanced Project Management
Sixth Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
---RIGHT---
• PHIL320 - Ethical Decision Making
• BUS461 - Capstone: Managing for Organizational Change
• BUS420 - Digital and Social Media Management
OR BUS399 - AM BAS Independent Study
Elective (52-59 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete additional elective courses numbered 100 or above as needed to
fulfill the 180 credit requirement for the degree. Elective coursework may
include applicable credits earned through an associate degree.
Program Map
Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Management - Project Management
Specialization Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 118@@@
---LEFT---
Customer Service Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Customer Service Certificate
Catalog Description
The Customer Service Certificate prepares students to deliver consistently
superior customer service, both internally and externally.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
12 RROCSC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS102 - Customer Service
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
---RIGHT---
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Program Map
Customer Service Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 119@@@
---LEFT---
Entrepreneurship Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Entrepreneurship Certificate
Catalog Description
The Entrepreneurship Certificate is designed to provide students with an
entrepreneurial mindset and the business skills to create a sustainable venture.
The courses in this certificate may be applied to satisfy requirements for the
Associate of Applied Science in Business.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
26 ENRENC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Accounting Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ACCT101 - Practical Accounting I
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
• BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
• BUS295 - Entrepreneurial & Innovative Mindset
Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU203 - Excel II
OR
---RIGHT---
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Program Map
Entrepreneurship Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 120@@@
---LEFT---
Global Transportation and Secure Logistics Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Global Transportation and Secure Logistics Certificate
Catalog Description
The Global Transportation & Secure Logistics Certificate provides a broad
overview of the transportation and logistics industry, with a focus on global
logistics systems and the technologies that support efficient movement of goods.
Courses in this certificate may be applied toward the Associate in Applied Science
(AAS) in Business.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
24 LMMTSC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• LOG102 - Transportation & Distribution
• LOG104 - Applied Warehousing and Inventory Management
• LOG108 - International Trade and Logistics Management
• BUS150 - Global Business
• LOG115 - Logistics Security and Risk Management
• CU203 - Excel II
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203. To initiate the
substitution process or for additional information, students should contact
Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Program Map
Global Transportation and Secure Logistics Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Human Resource Management Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Human Resource Management Certificate
Catalog Description
The Human Resource Management Certificate is designed for individuals seeking
career advancement or transitioning into the human resources field. The
curriculum provides a strong foundation in core HR functions, including talent
acquisition, employee relations, and organizational development. Students gain
practical skills applicable across diverse organizational settings, preparing them to
contribute effectively to HR teams and support strategic workforce initiatives.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
14-15 HRPHRC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS442 - Intermediate Human Resource Management
• BUS452 - Advanced Human Resource Management
• BUS462 - Capstone: Human Resource Management
Program Map
Human Resource Management Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 121@@@
---LEFT---
Human Resource Specialist Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Human Resource Specialist Certificate
Catalog Description
The Human Resource Specialist Certificate prepares students for careers in human
resources by building essential skills in employee relations, recruitment,
compliance, and organizational development. This certificate is ideal for individuals
already in the workforce who are returning to school to enhance their HR
knowledge. Courses in this certificate may be applied toward the Associate in
Applied Science (AAS) in Business.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
20 HRPHSC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ACCT145 - Payroll And Business Taxes
• BUS102 - Customer Service
• BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
• BUS165 - Human Resource Management
Note: Student must complete ACCT&201 Principles of Accounting I and
(BUS110 Business Math for Decision Making or MATH147 College
Algebra for Business and Economics) with a minimum grade of C prior to
enrolling in ACCT145.
Program Map
Human Resource Specialist Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
---RIGHT---
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)

@@@PAGE 122@@@
---LEFT---
Management Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Management Certificate
Catalog Description
The Management Certificate prepares students to manage a variety of settings as
a first line supervisor. Students must first complete the Customer Service
Certificate and Marketing Certificate to receive the Management certificate.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
53 RROMAC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Customer Service Certificate (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS102 - Customer Service
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Microsoft Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Microsoft Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
---RIGHT---
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Marketing Certificate (23 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
Mathematics Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
• MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Advising Notes:
Bachelor-bound students are recommended to take MATH147 or
MATH&146 in lieu of BUS110.
Students taking MATH&146, looking to strengthen their skill base with
pre-requisite topics are encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH46
Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Advising Note:
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll concurrently
in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for Reading and Writing.
Core Requirements (18 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
• BUS165 - Human Resource Management
• BUS232 - Introduction to Project Management
Communication Studies Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication

@@@PAGE 123@@@
---LEFT---
Program Map
Management Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Marketing Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Marketing Certificate
Catalog Description
The Marketing certificate prepares students for entry-level opportunities with
organizations that provide products or with direct marketing agencies. Completion
of the Customer Service Certificate is required prior to beginning the Marketing
Certificate.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
35 RROMAC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Customer Service Certificate (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS102 - Customer Service
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
Microsoft Word & Excel
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR

@@@PAGE 124@@@
---LEFT---
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Core Requirements (23 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
Mathematics Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
• MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Advising Notes:
Bachelor-bound students are recommended to take MATH147 or
MATH&146 in lieu of BUS110.
Students taking MATH&146, looking to strengthen their skill base with
pre-requisite topics are encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH46
Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Advising Note:
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll concurrently
in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for Reading and Writing.
Program Map
Marketing Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Project Management Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Project Management Certificate
Catalog Description
The Project Management Certificate is designed for individuals seeking career
advancement or transitioning into project management roles. The curriculum
provides a comprehensive foundation in key project management functions,
including project planning, budgeting, team coordination, and performance
evaluation. Students develop leadership and organizational skills applicable across
a wide range of industries, preparing them to manage projects effectively in
diverse professional settings.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
14-15 PRMPMC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS441 - Intermediate Project Management
• BUS451 - Advanced Project Management
• BUS461 - Capstone: Managing for Organizational Change
Program Map
Project Management Certificate Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 125@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
General Information
This survey course is intended for both business and non-business majors.
Students will study profit and not-for-profit organizations through the exploration
of topics such as the role of business, entrepreneurship, global business,
management, ethics and social responsibility, marketing, accounting and finance,
and managing processes and operations. This class counts as a social science
distribution.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Placement
Completion of the English Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement.
BUS&201 - Business Law
General Information
An introduction to the American legal system and the functions of law in a business
environment; legal reasoning and the process of resolving disputes in society; a
preliminary analysis of contractual arrangements and business association in the
business community.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Additional Comments:
No Enrollment Requirements
---RIGHT---
BUS102 - Customer Service
General Information
Students will learn the skills necessary to provide quality customer service of the
21st century in any workplace environment. The course will focus on improving
verbal, non-verbal, and listening skills; adopting a positive attitude; using effective
techniques for handling difficult customers; recognizing ethical behavior and
decisions; practicing professional communication etiquette and understanding the
multicultural aspects of customer service in the global marketplace.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
No Requirements

@@@PAGE 126@@@
---LEFT---
BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
General Information
This course is a review of mathematical computations using fractions, decimals,
percentages, and proportions as well as introductory algebra. The focus is on their
application to personal finance and business situations with the emphasis on
decision-making and problem-solving. Topics may include credit cards, bank
reconciliation, foreign currency exchange, discounts, taxes, payroll, installment
buying, mortgages, depreciation, and interest.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math Placement or Course
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Math Directed Self-Placement
Math Directed Self-Placement
For more information about the Math Directed Self-Placement Tool,
visit: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
course_placement/placement_testing
Note: Directed Self-Placement is not available for Running Start, Fresh
Start, or International students. These students should consult their
advisor for guidance on appropriate course placement.
OR
Elementary Algebra
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
OR
Elementary Algebra
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ABE85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
---RIGHT---
BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
General Information
Examines marketing fundamentals and their impact on business and society.
Students will study the concepts of consumer needs, demand management,
customer behavior, strategies in product development, promotion, advertising,
sales and distribution systems.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Placement
English Directed Self-Placement Completion or appropriate placement.
For more information about the English Directed Self-Placement Tool,
visit: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
course_placement/placement_testing
Note: Directed Self-Placement is not available for Running Start, Fresh
Start, or International students. These students should consult their
advisors for guidance on appropriate course placement.
BUS150 - Global Business
General Information
This course examines the most important aspects of doing business ethically in the
globalized world; the basics of international trade theory, and factors, institutions,
and mechanisms that are used to shape trade among nations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Composition Course
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101

@@@PAGE 127@@@
---LEFT---
BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
General Information
A practical course concentrating on successfully launching and managing a small
business, achieving optimum benefits from limited resources, planning for growth
and succession, and developing skills, qualities, and traits that complement
entrepreneurial behavior. Students will write a business plan that supports their
future entrepreneurial efforts.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Placement
English Directed Self-Placement Completion or appropriate placement.
For more information about the English Directed Self-Placement Tool,
visit: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
course_placement/placement_testing
Note: Directed Self-Placement is not available for Running Start, Fresh
Start, or International students. These students should consult their
advisor for guidance on appropriate course placement.
BUS163 - Management Principles and Organizational
Systems
General Information
Basic theory and common terms of management. Course examines what
management is, who managers are, what they do, how they differ from
non-managers, and how management contributes to an organization's success.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Directed Self-Placement
English Directed Self Placement Completion or appropriate placement.
For more information about the English Directed Self-Placement Tool,
visit: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
course_placement/placement_testing
Note: Directed Self-Placement is not available for Running Start, Fresh
Start, or International students. These students should consult their
advisor for guidance on appropriate course placement.
---RIGHT---
BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
General Information
Applies human relations skills to the work world. Focuses on interpersonal
leadership skills that can maximize cooperation, flexibility, sensitivity and
teamwork among workers. Students examine how attitudes, values, needs and
communication styles affect relationships at work. Small-group projects will
practice leadership skills and evaluate individual interpersonal competence.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Directed Self-Placement
English Directed Self Placement Completion or appropriate placement.
For more information about the English Directed Self-Placement Tool,
visit: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
course_placement/placement_testing
Note: Directed Self-Placement is not available for Running Start, Fresh
Start, or International students. These students should consult their
advisor for guidance on appropriate course placement.
BUS165 - Human Resource Management
General Information
Explores how organizations obtain, retain, and effectively utilize human resources.
Topics include workplace diversity, forming quality work teams, equal opportunity,
work analysis, staffing, training and development, performance appraisals,
compensation, union/management relations, and grievance procedures.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Directed Self-Placement
English Directed Self-Placement Completion or appropriate placement.
For more information about the English Directed Self-Placement Tool,
visit: https://www.tacomacc.edu/costs-admission/admission-process/
course_placement/placement_testing
Note: Directed Self-Placement is not available for Running Start, Fresh
Start, or International students. These students should consult their
advisor for guidance on appropriate course placement.

@@@PAGE 128@@@
---LEFT---
BUS232 - Introduction to Project Management
General Information
This course will introduce students to the fundamentals of project management
including understanding a projects life cycle, setting priorities and expectations,
controlling expenses and reporting results. Students will examine the various roles,
environments and techniques of planning, evaluation, and control.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Skills
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Recommend Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Skills
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• CU100 - Introduction to Practical Computing
BUS256 - Statistical Analysis
General Information
Statistical techniques to be used in guiding business decisions. Introduction to
descriptive techniques, probability, estimation, hypothesis testing, regression,
correlation and related concepts.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MATH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
AND ABE85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
Additional Comments:
All course must be completed with a C grade.
---RIGHT---
BUS257 - Social Media for Business
General Information
This course is designed to provide students with foundational skills to use social
media tools and strategies so that they can immediately apply them in the
workplace.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Skills
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Recommend Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Skills
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• CU101 - Web-Enabled Learning and Communication

@@@PAGE 129@@@
---LEFT---
BUS260 - Small Business Operations
General Information
Students will acquire key skills and knowledge focused on small business
administration, customer relations, marketing and sales, technology utilization, and
leading a small organization. The course is a balance between acquiring topic
knowledge and gaining key supporting skills through in-class practice and
demonstration. Furthermore, student learning is enhanced through teamwork and
interacting with the local business community.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business & English Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL&101 may be taken concurrently.
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
Business Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS140 - Marketing and Business Development
• BUS257 - Social Media for Business
BUS280 - Career Readiness Skills
General Information
This course covers employment search skills and the employee skills needed to be
successful on the job. It is recommended preparation for internships: ACCT-290,
BUS-290, and IT-290.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
---RIGHT---
BUS290 - Work Internship
General Information
During one quarter of the sophomore year, students may receive college credits
for hands-on work experience and training in a private - or public - sector
organization.
Components Credits
Systems 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Permission Required
Program Chair permission.
BUS295 - Entrepreneurial & Innovative Mindset
General Information
This course is for students who want to learn more about innovation,
entrepreneurship and launching a venture. The class will introduce the principles
of an entrepreneurial mindset. The characteristics of the entrepreneurial mindset
will be dissected and applied to the student's own entrepreneurial potential.
Additionally, students will examine needed technical skills including business,
finance, marketing, legal issues, and social media.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business & English
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS160 - Small Business Entrepreneurship
AND ENGL&101 - English Composition I

@@@PAGE 130@@@
---LEFT---
BUS299 - Independent Study
General Information
Study on an individual basis.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Permission Required
Program Chair Permission.
BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and
Practice
General Information
This course covers a broad overview of the foundations of management and
leadership from a theoretical and practical perspective. It focuses on integrating
theory into higher level critical thinking allowing students to apply theory to real
world business problems. Topics will include terminology, strategies and
techniques to manage and lead, leadership, motivation, team building, change,
group dynamics, power and conflict.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Research Skills
Enroll in the following Courses:
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into BAS Applied Management Program
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS&101 - Introduction to Business
or equivalent or any 5 credit BUS course at the 100/200 level.
---RIGHT---
BUS310 - Organizational and Interpersonal Behavior
General Information
This course covers managing relationships within an organization. It relates theory
and research to organizational problems by reviewing advanced concepts in
motivation and perception, leadership, decision-making, communication and
influence, group behavior, conflict and cooperation, politics, corporate culture,
organizational structure and environmental influences. Students will gain practical
experience in managing teams, resolving conflict, and building professional and
effective relationships.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into AM BAS.
BUS320 - Managerial Accounting
General Information
This course covers the basic principles of financial and managerial accounting,
including analyzing balance sheets, income statements, cash flow statements,
financial analysis, and budgetary control systems. Students also will gain skills in
reporting, planning, coordinating, and monitoring the performance of an
organization.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
• ACCT&201 - Principles of Accounting I
Excel
Earn a minimum grade of B in the following:
• CU203 - Excel II
or Microsoft Office Specialist Excel Core Level (current version)
certification.

@@@PAGE 131@@@
---LEFT---
BUS330 - Legal Environments in Business
General Information
This course covers the state and federal laws that affect management behavior and
organizational practices, including contracts, business organizations, employment
law, product liability, safety issues, and environmental regulations. The focus will
be placed on how to manage employees and other relationships legally and
ethically. Emphasis will be placed in preventative law as well as strategies to
resolve workplace conflict without litigation.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
BUS340 - Financial Management
General Information
This course covers financial management principles with a focus on corporations
and the concepts associated with allocation of scarce resources across assets over
time. Students will learn how managers interface with accounting and finance
departments, meet financial objectives, and make decisions. Students will utilize
spreadsheets and other analytical methods to study issues and problems related to
corporate finance. Topics will include sources and sequencing of financing as a
business develops, assessing and forecasting, managing short and long term capital
needs, and evaluating the financial plan in relationship to the stated business plan.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS320 - Managerial Accounting
---RIGHT---
BUS350 - Fundamentals of Project Management
General Information
This course covers project management methods and delves into topics covered in
the Comptia study guide. This course will prepare students to manage projects
from start to finish within any organizational structure. The course features
practice in each of the project phases as students learn how to strategically apply
project management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their
goals.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
BUS360 - Fundamentals of Human Resources
Management
General Information
This course provides the tools to create a highly skilled and diversified workforce
by implementing effective strategies and best practices for planning, recruiting,
selecting and maintaining within the scope of organizational goals. Special
emphasis will be placed on creating a diversified workforce within an ethical and
inclusive organization.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice

@@@PAGE 132@@@
---LEFT---
BUS399 - AM BAS Independent Study
General Information
Variable credit (1-5 credits) independent study course for Applied Management
BAS students only. Eligible students work with a professor to create learning
objectives relevant to the student's business career focus and interests.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business/Library Science
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
AND LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
BUS400 - Economics for Managers
General Information
This course covers issues in microeconomics, macroeconomics, and global
economics. Topics include allocation of resources, economic systems, economic
institutions and incentives, market structures and prices, and productivity. This
course also includes issues related to the global marketplace and globalization,
aggregate supply and demand, and governmental policy towards business.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business/Math
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
AND MATH136 - Inferential Statistics (Inactive)
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Enrollement Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business/Math
Complete at least 0 of the following courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
OR BUS256 - Statistical Analysis
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 133@@@
---LEFT---
BUS410 - Operations and Logistics
General Information
This course covers the concepts related to the physical movement and storage of
goods, such as raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods, and associated
managerial activities that are important for effective control. Students will apply
the concepts of total quality Management (TQM), Just in Time (JIT), forecasting,
inventory theory and supply chain management. This course will also cover the
importance of interrelationships between logistics, production, marketing,
financial management, and quality control.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
AND BUS320 - Managerial Accounting
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
BUS420 - Digital and Social Media Management
General Information
This course covers the connection between business objectives and social media
strategy, platforms, and tactics. The primary focus of this course, is to understand
how marketing activities can be implemented online and via social media to reach
target customers and strategic objectives.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS330 - Legal Environments in Business
---RIGHT---
BUS430 - Business Strategy and Sustainability
General Information
This course covers an overview of business strategy concepts, tools, and
techniques to build and operate a sustainable organization. The course will
integrate sustainable development and environmentalism concepts with business
management strategy to achieve corporate social responsibility. Students will learn
about the ecological and economic benefits of sustainability and green practices.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS300 - Foundations of Management Theory and Practice
AND BUS330 - Legal Environments in Business
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Environmental Science
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science

@@@PAGE 134@@@
---LEFT---
BUS441 - Intermediate Project Management
General Information
This course covers the behavioral and technical aspects of managing projects. The
course will explore various approaches for effectively managing team dynamics,
project planning, monitoring, and controlling activities. Students gain insight into
project leadership and team management. The goal is to prepare students with the
necessary knowledge related to effective project team management as well as
project cost, quality, and performance in order to satisfy the business objectives
and successfully manage the implementation of a project. Project management
software will be used to support the implementation of a project. Students will
prepare a project plan at an intermediate level of difficulty.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS350 - Fundamentals of Project Management
BUS442 - Intermediate Human Resource Management
General Information
This course focuses on enlarging the competencies of a workforce through training
and professional development using adult learning theories and best practices for
training. The course also covers compensation and benefit systems using a Total
Rewards approach integrating tangible and intangible rewards.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS360 - Fundamentals of Human Resources Management
---RIGHT---
BUS451 - Advanced Project Management
General Information
This course covers advanced project management topics necessary for
implementation of and excellence in project management. The course will provide
a framework for approaching, evaluating, and implementing project risk and
quality management in order to obtain optimal project results by identifying and
applying relevant quality management tools, activities, and methods for achieving
systemic quality management and quality improvement across all phases of the
project life cycle. The course will also explore agile project management
methodologies. Best practices in the management of international projects, human
resource management, risk management, project leadership, quality and
communications management will be explored and discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS441 - Intermediate Project Management
BUS452 - Advanced Human Resource Management
General Information
This course focuses on the legal and regulatory framework surrounding
employment locally, nationally and globally. Students will become familiar with law
and regulations pertaining to compensation, employee relations, job safety and
health, equal employment opportunity, leave and benefits and other protection
laws. Topics will also include labor relations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS442 - Intermediate Human Resource Management

@@@PAGE 135@@@
---LEFT---
BUS461 - Capstone: Managing for Organizational Change
General Information
This culminating course is the capstone for students with studies concentrated in
project management. It includes an in-depth investigation of the forces driving
organizational change and their impact on people and structure. The course
focuses on developing leadership and change capabilities at all levels in an
organization. Students will examine the techniques of organizational design and
development with emphasis on the methods of planned change to ensure improved
effectiveness of organizations in a changing external environment. A planned
approach to managing all phases of the organizational change process is
emphasized.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 4 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS451 - Advanced Project Management
BUS462 - Capstone: Human Resource Management
General Information
This culminating course is the capstone course for students with studies
concentrated in human resource management. Students will evaluate case studies
and integrate all human resource management knowledge and skills learned in
previous courses including critical strategies in the areas of legal/regulatory
compliance, recruitment and selection of personnel, performance and feedback
mechanisms, and financial and benefits compensation.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 4 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BUS452 - Advanced Human Resource Management
---RIGHT---
BUS480 - Applied Management Internship
General Information
This internship course is designed to provide students with major-related,
supervised, and evaluated practical training work experiences which may be paid
or voluntary. Students are graded on the basis of the quality of documented
learning acquired through hands-on, new experiences in an actual work setting.
The course-related outcomes are designed and agreed upon by the student, the
organization providing the internship, and the faculty member facilitating this
course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Field Study 2 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Admission to the AM BAS program AND Instructor Permission

@@@PAGE 136@@@
---LEFT---
Chemistry Department
Chemistry Department website : https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/chemistry
Chemistry Department Chair: Kim Davidson - kdavidson@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 137@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 138@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Chemistry
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Chemistry Specialization
Catalog Description
The Chemistry Specialization of the Associate in Science Transfer (AS-T) Track 1
degree provides a strong academic foundation for students intending to major in
chemistry.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LRST1AS Code Fall 2025
90 CHEMISTRY
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative Skills / Symbolic Reasoning (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (48 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses (30 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II

@@@PAGE 139@@@
---LEFT---
• CHEM&263 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab III
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Electives (7 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 7 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer institution
and may include prerequisites for major courses (e.g.,
pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific general
education.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Students planning to transfer to the University of Washington Seattle for the
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry are encouraged to take MATH&254
Calculus IV. The UW Seattle BS in Chemistry program requires completion of
MATH 126, and transfer credit for this course is only granted if both
MATH&153 and MATH&254 are completed.
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the Multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Chemistry Specialization
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 140@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
CHEM&110 - Chemical Concepts w/lab
General Information
Survey of the fundamental principles of chemistry in a relatively non-mathematical
way. Course utilizes themes such as food, the environment, and the global
economy. Course covers measurement, atomic and molecular structure, chemical
reactions, and applications of chemistry to everyday life. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Additional Comments:
No enrollment requirements.
CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
General Information
(For non-science and non-engineering majors. Intended primarily for students
pursuing Nursing or Allied Health careers.) Course includes the study of the metric
system, atomic theory, bonding, quantitative relationships, solutions, redox
chemistry, equilibrium, gases, acids and bases, salts, and nuclear chemistry.
Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
---RIGHT---
CHEM&131 - Introduction to Organic/Biochemistry
General Information
(For non-science majors.) Study of the structure, properties, and reactions of
organic and biological compounds. Includes an introduction to biochemical
processes. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
CHEM&140 - General Chemistry Prep w/Lab
General Information
This course is designed to prepare students with no or minimal prior chemistry
background for entry into the General Chemistry course sequence (CHEM& 161,
162, and 163). This course is appropriate for students pursuing science,
engineering, pre-med, pre-pharmacy, and similar majors/degrees who have not met
the chemistry prerequisite for CHEM& 161. Topics include both the foundational
conceptual and quantitative aspects of chemistry such as the metric system,
dimensional analysis, basic atomic structure, stoichiometry, and the composition
and changes of matter. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.

@@@PAGE 141@@@
---LEFT---
CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
General Information
This is the first quarter of college-level General Chemistry. General Chemistry is
appropriate for students on science, engineering, pre-med, and similar pathways.
This course covers measurements, the structure of matter, compounds,
stoichiometry, classes of chemical reactions, gases, thermochemistry, and the
quantum mechanical model of hydrogen. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&140 - General Chemistry Prep w/Lab
OR CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
or one year of high school chemistry.
Math
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&141 - Precalculus I
OR MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
Math course may be taken concurrently.
CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
General Information
This is the second quarter of college-level freshman chemistry. It covers electronic
structure, bonding and bonding theories, molecular shapes, intermolecular forces,
solids, liquids, solutions, and chemical equilibrium. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
---RIGHT---
CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
General Information
This is the third quarter of college-level freshman chemistry. It covers chemical
kinetics, equilibrium, acids and bases, solubility, complex ions, thermodynamics,
electrochemistry, and nuclear chemistry. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
General Information
Organic chemistry for science majors. Study of the application of general chemical
principles to organic compounds. Topics include: structure, orbital theory,
isomerism, nomenclature, resonance, and chiralty; substitution and elimination
reactions; introduction to IR spectroscopy. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III

@@@PAGE 142@@@
---LEFT---
CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
General Information
Organic chemistry for science majors. Topics include: structure, properties and
reactions of alkenes, alkynes, alcohols, radicals, and aromatic compounds;
introduction to NMR, UV/VIS, and mass spectroscopy. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
CHEM&263 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab III
General Information
Organic chemistry for science majors. Topics include: structure, properties and
reactions of aldehydes, ketones, amines, and carboxylic acids and their derivatives;
introduction to biological molecules and biochemical processes. Laboratory
included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
Chinese Department
For more information on our World Language Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/world_languages
World Language Department Chair: Bruno Arzola-Padilla - barzolapadilla@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 143@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
CHIN&121 - Chinese I
General Information
The first year of the beginning Chinese language sequence consists of 121, 122,
and 123. CHIN&-121 is the first quarter of the sequence. The basic tenets of
communications including reading, writing, speaking and listening are developed in
a dynamic second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology.
Grammar is used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part
in small group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic
materials will be focused on in the class as well assessment. Students should expect
to be immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum. (Multicultural
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
CHIN&122 - Chinese II
General Information
CHIN&-122 is the second quarter of the first-year language sequence and
continues to build on the skills acquired in CHIN&-121. The basic tenets of
communications including reading, writing, speaking and listening are developed in
a dynamic second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology.
Grammar is used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part
in small group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic
materials will be focused on in the class as well assessment. Students should expect
to be immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum. (Multicultural
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chinese
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• CHIN&121 - Chinese I
College Department
College 101 Department Chair: Alisa Ulferts Birkenstein - aulfertsbirkenstein@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
CHIN&123 - Chinese III
General Information
CHIN&-123 is the third quarter of the first-year language sequence and continues
to build on the skills acquired in CHIN&-122. The basic tenets of communications
including reading, writing, speaking and listening are developed in a dynamic
second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology. Grammar is
used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part in small
group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic materials will
be focused on in the class as well assessment. Students should expect to be
immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum. (Multicultural
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chinese
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• CHIN&122 - Chinese II

@@@PAGE 144@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
COL101 - College 101
General Information
To facilitate students' development of the capacities necessary to confidently
navigate their unique college and career pathways. Topics may include:
self-advocacy skills; leveraging students cultural capital; setting and achieving
goals; academic planning; self care and stress management; cultivating mentor,
peer and community relationships; communication; career exploration; financial
education; connecting with college and community resources; critical thinking
related to equity, diversity, and inclusion; and information literacy.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Communication Studies Department
For more information on our Communication Studies Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/communication-studies
Communication Studies Department Chair: Steve Johns - sjohns@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 145@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 146@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Communication Studies
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Communication Studies Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Communication Studies Specialization equips students with essential,
real-world skills in oral and written communication, media literacy, critical thinking,
and interpersonal interaction. Through an exploration of how communication
influences culture, relationships, and systems of power, students learn to navigate
conflict, listen actively, and articulate ideas with clarity and confidence.
Graduates are prepared to transfer to bachelor’s programs with junior standing to
most Washington State baccalaureate institutions, having satisfied most or all
lower-division general education requirements. Students planning to transfer out
of state should consult with their intended institution to ensure course
transferability. Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic
advisor to develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the
specific admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities
or education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Graduates of this specialization are also well-prepared to enter the workforce with
adaptable and sought-after communication competencies applicable to a wide
range of personal, academic, and professional contexts.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 COMM
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Studies Specialization Requirements (20 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Foundation Courses
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Introductory Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
AND
Core Courses
Complete at least 3 of the following courses:
• CMST&102 - Introduction to Mass Media
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.

@@@PAGE 147@@@
---LEFT---
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Communication Studies Specialization Core Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&102 - Introduction to Mass Media
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Recommended Course:
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics - Introduction to Statistics
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH&146 and MATH46
Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Communication Studies Specialization Introductory Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
---RIGHT---
AND
Communication Studies Specialization Core Course (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&102 - Introduction to Mass Media
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
AND
Additional Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
Course must be from discipline other than Communication Studies
(CMST/CMST&) .
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
Recommended Courses:
POLS&101 Introduction to Political Science - Introduction to Political
Science
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
(Multicultural Course)
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENVS105 Climate Change - Climate Change (Biological, Earth, and Physical
Sciences, Lab Course)
SCI105 Introductory Topics in Natural Science - Introductory Topics in
Natural Science w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)

@@@PAGE 148@@@
---LEFT---
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Communication Studies Specialization Core Course (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&102 - Introduction to Mass Media
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
AND
Distribution Electives
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
College-Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Communication Studies Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Communication Skills or
Humanities Distribution to fulfill up to three requirements simultaneously
- multicultural requirement, one specialization requirement, and one
distribution requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
CMST&102 Introduction to Mass Media - Introduction to Mass Media
(Communication Studies Specialization, Communication Skills or Humanities
Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
CMST&210 Interpersonal Communication - Interpersonal Communication
(Communication Studies Specialization, Humanities Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
---RIGHT---
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural Communication
(Communication Studies Specialization, Communication Skills or Humanities
Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Communication Studies Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising

@@@PAGE 149@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
General Information
A survey of fundamental principles of communication theory. Students are
introduced to verbal and nonverbal communication, effective listening,
interpersonal communication, small group discussion as well as culture and gender
factors in communication. Written assignments, examinations and informal oral
presentations are included.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
CMST&102 - Introduction to Mass Media
General Information
A survey course exploring the role of various media in society, emphasizing media
literacy and covering historical and contemporary developments. It examines the
relationships among media, audience, and government, exploring traditional, social,
digital, and new media. The course addresses misinformation, media theory,
advertising, media effects, journalism, communication during crises, and
connections between communication, business, the arts, law, and the US
Constitution as well as global cultural topics. Students will be encouraged to move
beyond their role as media consumers, challenging representations and thinking
critically about media as a cultural and economic institution influencing everyday
life.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I.
---RIGHT---
CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
General Information
Interpersonal Communication (IPC) dives into how relationships and culture
influence how we interact. It looks at self-concept, perception, language nuances,
nonverbal cues, listening, identity, and how we use rhetoric to connect. Students
learn negotiation, conflict resolution, critical thinking, and empathetic listening in
various situations. Through exploring creative expression, identity, and cultural
awareness, the course promotes empathy and inclusivity. By putting these ideas
into practice, students gain tools for building meaningful connections in personal,
social, creative, and professional settings.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
CMST&220 - Public Speaking
General Information
An introduction to the preparation and delivery of oral presentations in an
extemporaneous style. Emphasis is on ethical research, critical, logical analysis,
organization of informative and persuasive presentations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101

@@@PAGE 150@@@
---LEFT---
CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
General Information
Small group communication emphasizing theoretical principles and their
application, enabling students to become more comfortable and competent
participants in the group communication process. Emphasis will be on the study
and application of the dynamics of group development, empathy skills, problem
solving methodologies, and the use of power and status, as related to leadership,
group think, effective meetings, systems, ethics, norms, presentation of findings,
and conflict management.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
General Information
A survey course of human interaction across cultures, focusing on values,
behaviors, and perceptions to develop empathy and adaptability in diverse
communication scenarios. We critically analyze culture, media, power dynamics,
and more, challenging stereotypes and discriminatory practices. Students
investigate intersections of social identities and historical movements, promoting
equity, representation, and social justice. Additionally, students conduct ethical
research following APA format guidelines for credibility and reliability.
Throughout, we integrate perspectives from local, U.S., and global cultures.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
CMST179 - Special Topics in Communication
General Information
These are seminars designed to provide communication studies students with the
opportunity to explore, research, and study selected topics and/or contemporary
issues related to communication, public speaking, and the media. Faculty will
generally determine material covered; however, material may also reflect the
expressed need or interest of students in communication studies courses.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Communications
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
AND CMST110 - Multicultural Communication (Inactive)
AND CMST&220 - Public Speaking
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 151@@@
---LEFT---
CMST320 - Professional and Organizational
Communication
General Information
This course covers an introduction to the communication dynamics of
organizations and the role of communication in the professional and management
world. Students will analyze structured and informal communication channels,
organizational culture, and strategic communication. Content includes
work-related human relations topics such as communicating gender, power
dynamics, mission, and identity. Other topics are conflict resolution, persuasive
strategy, leadership, corporate culture, globalization, the role of technology, and
external communication such as crisis communication. Content includes the major
theories of organizational communication, identifying and defining primary
concepts and applying them to discussions of real-world situations. The theory and
research will be applicable and practically applied through case studies of
organizational issues.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
Acceptance into a BAS program required.
Community Health Department
For more information on our Community Health Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/community-health/
Department email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Community Health Department Chair: Brandon Censon - bcenson@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
CMST330 - Health Communication
General Information
This course aims to provide a broad introduction to provider-patient
communication, mass communication, health journalism, corporate
communication, communication by non-profit health organizations and
government health agencies, and community / public health education campaigns.
In addition, the course will examine a variety of theories used in health
communication and explore such national health issues as health disparities, health
literacy, advocacy and patient safety and healthcare reform. We will examine how
strategically designed and culturally grounded communication practices and
policies can be used to improve health outcomes. The course will examine multiple
levels of communication (intrapersonal, interpersonal, group, organizational, and
societal communication), key human and mediated channels of communication, as
well as new digital information technologies.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
Acceptance into a BAS program also required.

@@@PAGE 152@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 153@@@
---LEFT---
Bachelor of Applied Science in Community Health
Overview
Full Credential Title
Bachelor of Applied Science in Community Health
Catalog Description
The Bachelor of Applied Science (BAS) in Community Health is designed to prepare
students to make a meaningful impact in the field of public health. This degree
provides a strong foundation in community health theory and practice, with a focus
on population health, primary prevention, patient education, quality improvement,
and health advocacy.
Students will develop a comprehensive understanding of the social, economic, and
systemic factors that influence public health outcomes. The program emphasizes
skills such as health education, policy analysis, advocacy, and strategies for
improving health services and reducing disparities across communities.
Graduates will be well-prepared to contribute to a wide range of organizations,
including public and community health agencies, hospitals, nonprofit organizations,
insurance companies, governmental entities, and private sector initiatives.
Whether entering the field of public health for the first time or expanding existing
knowledge, students will gain the tools needed to promote health equity, advocate
for underserved populations, and drive positive change in their communities.
Students interested in pursuing graduate education in a clinical field are
encouraged to consult with an academic advisor to determine specific course
requirements. Admission to medical schools and other professional healthcare
programs often requires extensive additional academic and clinical preparation.
Prospective applicants should review the admission criteria on the websites of
both the target institution/program and the relevant professional organization.
While the BAS in Community Health may satisfy the baccalaureate degree
requirement for some professional healthcare programs, it typically does not meet
the laboratory science–based prerequisites required for admission to most clinical
programs.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
180 PHGCHBAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Additional Comments:
• Associate degree (or 90 college level credits) in a health field
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 180 credits in courses numbered 100 or above.
---RIGHT---
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ TCC’s bachelor’s degree programs follow a 2+2
model, meaning students must complete an
associate degree—or a minimum of 90 transferable
credits—prior to admission into the bachelor’s
program. Therefore, students enrolled in these
programs are required to complete at least 25% of
the final 90 credits at TCC to meet residency
requirements.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be
considered for equivalency. TCC may also accept
transfer credits for professional/technical programs
if the credits are from an institution with a related
program accreditation. For more information, visit
Transfer Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in
Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that
is applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found
here or by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
General Education Requirements (35 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (5 Credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Required prior to taking 300 level Community Health courses.
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 Credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Required prior to taking 300 level Community Health courses.
Social Science (5 Credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
Recommended Courses:
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
PSYC&200 Lifespan Psychology - Lifespan Psychology
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
Natural Sciences (5 Credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences - Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Lab
Courses
Course must have a lab to satisfy requirement.
Recommended Courses:
BIOL&160 General Cell Biology - General Cell Biology

@@@PAGE 154@@@
---LEFT---
BIOL&241 Human Anatomy and Physiology 1 - Human Anatomy and
Physiology 1
BIOL&242 Human Anatomy and Physiology 2 - Human Anatomy and
Physiology 2
GEOG205 Physical Geography - Physical Geography
Distribution Electives (15 Credits)
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology -Biology Anthropology
CMST&101 Introduction to Communication - Introduction to
Communication
ENGL&235 Technical Writing - Technical Writing
NUTR&101 Human Nutrition - Human Nutrition
SOC&201 Social Problems - Social Problems
Community Health Professional Core Requirements (80 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Community Health Core Courses (50 Credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
First Quarter - Fall (15 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHP300 - Introduction to Community Health
• CHP305 - Community Health Advocacy
• ENGL301 - Professional Writing and Communication in
Healthcare
AND
Second Quarter - Winter (15 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHP315 - Health Policy, Law, and Ethics
• CHP335 - Healthcare Research Methods
• CMST330 - Health Communication
AND
Third Quarter - Spring (15 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHP320 - Introduction to Epidemiology
• CHP325 - Population Health and Wellness
• PHIL320 - Ethical Decision Making
AND
Fourth Quarter - Fall (10 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHP310 - Community Health Communications and
Informatics
• CHP330 - Program Planning and Evaluation
---RIGHT---
AND
Fifth Quarter - Winter (10 Credits)
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• CHP340 - Disaster Preparedness
• CHP360 - Global Health
• CHP400 - Environmental Health
AND
Sixth Quarter - Spring (15 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHP490 - Community Health Professional Capstone
• CHRC420 - Education in Healthcare
• CHP440 - Health, Culture, and Diversity
Electives (65 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete additional elective courses numbered 100 or above as needed to
fulfill the 180-credit requirement for the degree. Courses in health disciplines
are recommended. Elective coursework may include applicable credits
earned through an associate degree
Recommended Courses:
AH100 Introduction to Allied Health - Introduction to Allied Health
COL101 College 101 - College 101
CU102 Word I - Word I
CU103 Excel I - Excel I
CU203 Excel II - Excel II
HIT130 Medical Terminology I - Medical Terminology I or HIT105
Comprehensive Medical Terminology - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
Program Map
Bachelor of Applied Science in Community Health Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Healthcare Pathways Advising

@@@PAGE 155@@@
---LEFT---
Global Health and Cultural Competency Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Global Health and Cultural Competency Certificate
Catalog Description
The Global Health and Cultural Competency Certificate is designed to help
students in the Bachelor of Applied Science in Community Health Professional
program explore how culture influences healthcare delivery and outcomes.
Through field experience, students will apply their knowledge in real-world
settings, developing practical strategies to integrate cultural awareness into their
professional roles and enhance the quality of care they provide.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
10 PHGGHC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
CERTIFICATE COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHP360 - Global Health
• CHP440 - Health, Culture, and Diversity
Program Map
Global Health and Cultural Competency Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Healthcare Pathways Advising
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 156@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
CHP101 - Community Health Navigation and Care
Coordination
General Information
This course will explore professional care navigation, coordination, and advocacy
roles in the health and human services systems.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
CHP260 - Global Health
General Information
This course will compare and contrast healthcare delivery, to include the impact of
community health practice, in the United States with that of another country.
Students will study an identified population to learn about culture, belief systems,
values, and practices that are specific to that population in order to better
understand and provide health care that is both culturally competent and
culturally sensitive in nature. It introduces students to serving global populations
both domestically and internationally as clinicians, educators, and researchers.
Students will participate in field work with a target population.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
Instructor Permission Required
---RIGHT---
CHP300 - Introduction to Community Health
General Information
This course will explore the theories, past and present evidence, and application of
key concepts related to understanding and improving community and population
health. Students will apply these concepts to health and wellness issues with a
focus on social, political, economic, environmental, and biomedical aspects of the
field. Health disparities and inequities will be examined and potential solutions will
be discussed. Secondary trauma, compassion fatigue, and burnout will also be
investigated.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP305 - Community Health Advocacy
General Information
This course will examine the procedures and protocols for chronic health
screenings, navigation of health insurance and healthcare systems, and the
fundamentals of confidentiality. Case management and advocacy principles as they
apply to community and population health will be explored. Students will learn
basic mental health first aid as well as the signs and symptoms of chronic and
preventable health issues.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 157@@@
---LEFT---
CHP310 - Community Health Communications and
Informatics
General Information
This course will focus on three primary areas of ability: to collect, manage, and
organize data to produce meaningful exchange of information; to gather, process,
and present information to different audiences in person, through technology or
other media channels; and to strategically design the information and knowledge
exchange process to achieve specific objectives.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP315 - Health Policy, Law, and Ethics
General Information
This course will cover healthcare polices, laws, ethics, and social mores as they
relate to the application of community health goals of protecting the public from
threats of infectious disease, preventing chronic illnesses and injuries, and
promoting healthy life styles. The balance between population welfare and
individual rights and liberties will be examined from various perspectives. Ethical
decision making strategies will be integrated throughout the course.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
---RIGHT---
CHP320 - Introduction to Epidemiology
General Information
In this introductory course, students will learn and apply basic concepts of
epidemiology to multiple domains of public health. Students will illustrate and
practice using epidemiology to better understand, characterize, and promote
health at a population level. Students will engage in active and collaborative
learning through team activities, individual projects, case studies, group discussion,
and individual projects.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP325 - Population Health and Wellness
General Information
This course provides an overview of the connections between prevention,
wellness, and behavioral health with healthcare quality and safety, disease
prevention, patient education, and behavior change across the life span. Students
will learn to use theories and the four pillars of population health to understand
human motives, cultural influences, and the relationship between health and
behaviors. The signs and symptoms of chronic health issues will also be examined.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 158@@@
---LEFT---
CHP330 - Program Planning and Evaluation
General Information
This course will present a framework for developing, implementing, and evaluating
strategies to improve the way healthcare and health promotion efforts are
implemented in the community. Evidence based models will be used to bring
together resources, logistics, plans, and people to ensure programs are functional
and methods of data collection are effective.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP335 - Healthcare Research Methods
General Information
The main purpose of this class is to provide a broad introduction to the
methodological foundations and tools to study healthcare research. This course
will focus on the fundamentals of quantitative healthcare and applied research,
and explore qualitative research. Students will learn how to identify problems to
study, develop hypotheses and research questions, specify independent and
dependent variables, check for the validity and reliability of studies and design
research projects. Students will be exposed to the broad range of designs used in
healthcare research from laboratory and field experiments, surveys, content
analysis, focus groups and in-depth interviewing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
---RIGHT---
CHP340 - Disaster Preparedness
General Information
Effective emergency planning is the key to surviving natural and man-made
disasters. Risk analysis and the formulation of a comprehensive plan, followed by a
vigorous and continuing testing program, are essential elements to surviving an
emergency. Topics covered include threat assessment, risk analysis, formulating a
response plan, staffing an emergency operations center (EOC), interagency
coordination and liaison, managing an actual incident and conducting effective
follow-up analysis.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP360 - Global Health
General Information
This course will compare and contrast healthcare delivery, to include the impact of
community health practice, in the United States with that of another country.
Students will study an identified population to learn about culture, belief systems,
values, and practices that are specific to that population in order to better
understand and provide health care that is both culturally competent and
culturally sensitive in nature. It introduces students to serving global populations
both domestically and internationally as clinicians, educators, and researchers.
Students will participate in field work with a target population.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the CH BAS Program or ENGL& 101 with a minimum
grade of C AND Successful completion (C or Better) of 60 lower division
college credits (100-200 level) AND Instructor Permission

@@@PAGE 159@@@
---LEFT---
CHP399 - Community Health Independent Study
General Information
This course is designed to provide an independent learning activity designed jointly
by student and instructor to improve and/or increase the learner's knowledge and
skill.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
CHP400 - Environmental Health
General Information
This course will examine the role of environmental health in contemporary society
through the domains of water and air quality, food safety, solid and liquid waste
disposal, occupational health and injuries, agents of disease, and exposure to toxic
elements. Environmental policies and regulations and the role of regulatory
agencies will also be explored.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP410 - Trauma as a Community Health Issue
General Information
This course will introduce students to the Public Health and Social-Ecological
Models of Trauma. Students will learn to identify risk and protective factors
related to trauma as well as the individual, relationship, community, and societal
influences that create trauma and influence the reaction to it.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
---RIGHT---
CHP420 - Families as Social Systems
General Information
This course will explore the many definitions of family as it applies to health and
wellness. Students will learn concepts for understanding family processes and how
social and cultural contexts shape family development. Students will examine
methods and interventions to be applied to the routine of daily family living,
families in crisis, and families living with adversity. Focus will include the five areas
of health: physical, emotional, psychological, intellectual, and spiritual.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP430 - Epidemics and Prevention
General Information
This course will examine the complex nature of epidemics, the role of healthcare
workers in dealing with epidemics, and the costs and benefits of prevention and
interventions. The need for long term emergency preparedness and clearly
delineated responsibilities among government and non-government agencies in
responding to epidemics will also be explored.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 160@@@
---LEFT---
CHP440 - Health, Culture, and Diversity
General Information
The focus of this course will be to explore ways in which an awareness of the
culture-health relationship can inform and strength community health work. What
is meant by culture, the ways in which culture intersects with health issues, and
how community health efforts reduce health disparities will also be examined.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHP490 - Community Health Professional Capstone
General Information
This is the capstone for the Community Health Professional concentration for the
BAS degree
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
---RIGHT---
CHPM400 - EMS Ethics and Leadership
General Information
This course will explore the intersections of the concepts of ethics and leadership
from a wide range of contexts as it applies to EMS. Students will explore questions
such as: How are values and ethics established in individuals and organizations? Is
ethical leadership desirable and necessary? How does ethical leadership apply to
me? What are some helpful approaches to ethical questions? What are the
responsibilities of leaders to establish ethical climates in their organizations and
communities? What are the tensions between ethics and leadership?Are there
universal values and ethical principles in leadership? How does culture influence
ethics and leadership?
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHPM410 - Emergency Management
General Information
This course will introduce students to the vocabulary and core components of
Emergency Management. We will discuss the importance of this growing field that
is changing rapidly as a result of an increase in frequency, complexity, and severity
of man-made, natural, and technological disasters. We will examine historical
events that have changed the nature of the field, and introduce students to the
leadership and management roles that have emerged as a result of these events
taking place.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 161@@@
---LEFT---
CHPM420 - Injury Prevention
General Information
The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of the major issues in health
promotion and disease and injury prevention. Students are introduced to
strategies for promoting health and wellness, the major causes of premature
mortality and morbidity, behavioral and environmental contributions to illness and
injury, as well as strategies for risk reduction. Students will learn about the
economic, public policy, and ethical issues that health promotion raises.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHPM430 - Community Paramedicine
General Information
A Community Paramedic (CP) is an advanced paramedic that works to increase
access to primary and preventive care and decrease use of emergency
departments, which in turn decreases health care costs. Among other things, CPs
may play a key role in providing follow-up services after a hospital discharge to
prevent hospital readmission. CPs can provide health assessments, chronic disease
monitoring and education, medication management, immunizations and
vaccinations, laboratory specimen collection, hospital discharge follow-up care and
minor medical procedures.
Components Credits
Lecture 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
---RIGHT---
CHPM440 - Community Paramedicine Internship
General Information
Clinical internship for Community Paramedicine
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHPM450 - Critical Care Transport
General Information
Critical Care Transport course is designed to prepare the paramedic for advanced
critical care on ground and air transports. This includes providing advanced clinical
patient assessments and providing invasive care beyond the standard scope of
advanced pre-hospital care. Upon completion of the CHPM series the student may
take the Certified Flight Paramedic (FP-C) and/or the Certified Critical Care
Paramedic (CCP-C) exams held by the International Board of Specialty
Certification (IBSC).
Components Credits
Lecture 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 162@@@
---LEFT---
CHPM460 - Critical Care Transport Internship
General Information
The second in the series for students to step into clinical rotations with "hands-on"
specialized ICU care rotation, and specialized practice.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHPM490 - EMS Capstone
General Information
This capstone course integrates activities and responsibilities related to clinical
processes in one of the specific advanced practice specialties: critical care,
community paramedic, or EMS leadership.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 4 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
---RIGHT---
CHRC400 - Tobacco and Nicotine Treatment
General Information
Course focuses on the skills needed to effectively treat tobacco dependence. This
course will cover: neuropharmacology of nicotine, optimization of pharmacologic
management, conducting a basic counseling session, motivational interviewing and
other counseling approaches, and application of treatment of tobacco dependence
to people with co-morbid conditions.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHRC410 - Leadership for the Health Care Professional
General Information
An extensive examination of current practices/trends of techniques used in the
leadership of the health care environment. Emphasis will be placed upon specific
skill sets necessary for effective supervision and leadership in a health care
environment.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 163@@@
---LEFT---
CHRC420 - Education in Healthcare
General Information
An interactive course designed to provide health care professionals with the skills
needed to provide effective peer, student and client education.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
CHRC430 - Advanced Patient Care
General Information
This comprehensive course gives Respiratory Care Practitioners the opportunity
to enhance their knowledge and critical thinking skills in the areas of adult critical
care, neonatal/pediatric critical care and emergency room environments. With
content geared toward respiratory critical care and general critical care, this
course is a comprehensive orientation to the respiratory therapists role in caring
for critically ill patients. This course prepares practitioners for specialty credentials
in adult critical care and neonatal/pediatrics.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.
Computed Tomography Department
For more information on our Radiologic Science department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/radiologic-science/
Radiologic Science Department email: radiology@tacomacc.edu
Radiological Science Department Chair: Lielie Jarvis - ljarvis@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
CHRC490 - Advanced Respiratory Care Capstone
General Information
This is a capstone course integrating activities and responsibilities related to
clinical processes in one of the specific advanced practice specialties: critical care,
neonatal, pediatrics, management or education.
Components Credits Max Credits
Field Study 4 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Community Health BAS program.

@@@PAGE 164@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 165@@@
---LEFT---
Overview
Full Credential Title
Computed Tomography Certificate
Catalog Description
Students enrolled in the Computed Tomography (CT) Certificate program will fulfill
the professional requirements outlined in the ARRT Rules and Regulations.
Successful completion of the program will qualify students to meet the eligibility
criteria for ARRT certification and registration as a Computed Tomography
Technologist. The program adheres to ARRT’s Computed Tomography Clinical
Experience Requirements, ensuring that all curriculum components and clinical
hours are properly documented for the certification and registration process.
The Computed Tomography program is part-time (1-2 classes per quarter) and is
five quarters total in duration. Classes will be held in-person with additional online
components, and clinical rotations will take place during the final quarter.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
This program requires that applicants provide documentation for one of the
following program prerequisites:
1. Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing and WA state
Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; OR
2. Admission to TCC’s Radiologic Sciences program and completion of the first
two quarters of the program with a program average of a B or higher.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
29 MRTCTC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
CERTIFICATE COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the certificate
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CT280 - Patient Care & Radiation Safety
• CT281 - Digital Image Production for Computed Tomography
• CT282 - Cross Sectional Anatomy & Pathophysiology
• CT283 - Procedures for Computed Tomography
• CT284 - Computed Tomography Lab & Clinical Introduction
• CT285 - Computed Tomography Registry Review
• CT286 - Part Time Clinical I
• CT287 - Part Time Clinical II
Optional: Computed Tomography Independent Study
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CT299 - Computed Tomography Independent Study
---RIGHT---
Program Map
Computed Tomography Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Healthcare Pathways Advising

@@@PAGE 166@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
CT280 - Patient Care & Radiation Safety
General Information
This course focuses on the current healthcare delivery environment including
patient assessment, monitoring, infection control, and management. Additional
aspects of this course will cover managing CT patient dose and radiation safety.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
CT281 - Digital Image Production for Computed
Tomography
General Information
This course focuses on controlling image quality using imaging parameters within
the CT Console. It will discuss image processing, image display, and image quality. It
will also cover informatics which consists of PACS, DICOM, networking, and
archiving.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
---RIGHT---
CT282 - Cross Sectional Anatomy & Pathophysiology
General Information
This course is a study of human anatomy as viewed in sectional planes. Students
will compare planar anatomy to sectional anatomy and recognize anatomical
structures within the images. Studies will include Head, Chest, Abdomen, Pelvis,
and Spine. Students will also be presented with different pathologies of the listed
anatomy that are applicable to Computed Tomography.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
CT283 - Procedures for Computed Tomography
General Information
This course will focus on computed tomography procedures, protocols, and
contrast media. It will touch on sectional anatomy and patient care to reinforce
prior learning. The procedures covered will be Head, Neck, Spine, Thorax,
Abdomen, Pelvis, extremities, and some advanced CT studies. This course will
instruct the student on contrast agents: oral and IV.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval

@@@PAGE 167@@@
---LEFT---
CT284 - Computed Tomography Lab & Clinical
Introduction
General Information
This course will be held in a lab environment. Students will learn the Phillips CT
machine operating console, gantry, scanner, and data acquisition system. Students
will be taught positioning skills and non-contrast scans of the Head, Chest, and
Abdomen. There will be an additional component of learning how to start IVs
utilizing prosthetic arms.
Components Credits
Lab, Clinical 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
CT285 - Computed Tomography Registry Review
General Information
Designed to provide didactic preparation for the CT certification registry exam
through mock exams. This class will cover all topics noted on the ARRT certification
expectations.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
---RIGHT---
CT286 - Part Time Clinical I
General Information
This course is designed to provide clinical opportunities to develop required
competencies for Computed Tomography. This includes clinical CT department
experience for 20 hours per week for the duration of the quarter.
Components Credits
Clinical 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
CT287 - Part Time Clinical II
General Information
This course is designed to provide clinical opportunities to develop required
competencies for Computed Tomography. This includes clinical CT department
experience for 20 hours per week for the duration of the quarter. This course can
occur alone or in conjunction with Part Time Clinical I.
Components Credits
Clinical 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval

@@@PAGE 168@@@
---LEFT---
CT299 - Computed Tomography Independent Study
General Information
This course is designed to provide an independent learning activity designed jointly
by student and instructor to improve and/or increase the learners knowledge and
skill.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab, Clinical 5 35
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist RT(R) registry in good standing
AND WA state Radiologic Technologist license in good standing; or
Admission to the Radiologic Sciences program AND Program Chair
approval
CT313 - Advanced Clinical Practice Skills
General Information
This course focuses on the current healthcare delivery environment including
patient assessment, monitoring, infection control, and management. Additional
aspects of this course will cover managing CT patient dose and radiation safety.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Certification
Prerequisite: Radiologic Technologist: ARRT: RT(R), Nuclear Medicine:
NMTCB, ARRT: RT (N) Radiation Therapy: ARRT: RT (T)
---RIGHT---
CT320 - Part Time Computed Tomography Clinical
General Information
This course is designed to provide clinical opportunities to develop required
competencies for Computed Tomography. This includes clinical CT department
experience for 20 hours per week for the duration of the quarter.
Components Credits
Clinical 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Program Acceptance
Corequisite: Acceptance AND Availability of a Part Time clinical spot.
CT323 - Computed Tomography Physics
General Information
This course explores the basic physical and technical principles of CT scanning.
Computer technology, system components, image characteristics, and quality
control methods are introduced. Thorough overview of the physics of computed
tomography.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
CT333 - Applications of Computed Tomography & Image
Production
General Information
This course focuses on controlling image quality using imaging parameters within
the CT Console. It will discuss image processing, image display, and image quality. It
will also cover informatics which consists of PACS, DICOM, networking, and
archiving.
Components Credits
Lecture 3

@@@PAGE 169@@@
---LEFT---
CT340 - Full Time Computed Tomography Clinical
General Information
This course is designed to provide clinical opportunities to develop required
competencies for Computed Tomography. This includes clinical CT department
experience for 32-40 hours per week for the duration of the quarter.
Components Credits Max Credits
Clinical 10 12
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Program Acceptance
Corequisite: Acceptance into course subject to Full Time Clinical Slot
availability
CT343 - Principles & Methodology of Computed
Tomography Procedures
General Information
This course will focus on computed tomography procedures, protocols, and
contrast media. It will touch on sectional anatomy and patient care to reinforce
prior learning. The procedures covered will be Head, Neck, Spine, Thorax,
Abdomen, Pelvis, extremities, and some advanced CT studies. This course will
instruct the student on contrast agents: oral and IV.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computed Tomography
Prerequisite: CT 313 with a minimum grade of C CT 323 with a minimum
grade of C CT 333 with a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
CT353 - Principles & Methodology of Computed
Tomography Procedures Lab
General Information
This course will be held in a lab environment. Students will learn the Phillips CT
machine operating console, gantry, scanner, and data acquisition system. Students
will be taught positioning skills and non-contrast scans of the Head, Chest, and
Abdomen.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computed Tomography
Prerequisite: CT 313 with a minimum grade of C CT 323 with a minimum
grade of C CT 333 with a minimum grade of C Corequisite: CT 343 This is
an in-depth complimentary lab.
CT363 - Sectional Anatomy & Pathophysiology
General Information
This course is a study of human anatomy as viewed in sectional planes. Students
will compare planar anatomy to sectional anatomy and recognize anatomical
structures within the images. Studies will include Head, Chest, Abdomen, Pelvis,
and Spine. Students will also be presented with different pathologies of the listed
anatomy that are applicable to Computed Tomography.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computed Tomography
Prerequisite: CT 313 with a minimum grade of C CT 323 with a minimum
grade of C CT 333 with a minimum grade of C

@@@PAGE 170@@@
---LEFT---
CT390 - Computed Tomography Registry Review
General Information
Designed to provide didactic preparation for the CT certification registry exam
through mock exams. This class will cover all topics noted on the ARRT certification
expectations.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Computer Science Department
For more information on our Computer Science Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/computer_science
Computer Science Department Chair: Ivan Ramirez - iramirez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 171@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 172@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Computer Science, DTA/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Computer Science, DTA/MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate of Arts in Computer Science (DTA/MRP) is designed for students
planning to transfer to a bachelor's program to major in Computer Science or a
closely related field. In this program, students build strong foundations in
programming, mathematics, problem-solving, and computational thinking.
Graduates are prepared for upper-division coursework and a range of careers in
software development, systems analysis, cybersecurity, data science, and related
fields.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with the transfer institutions to understand how courses in
this degree will transfer. Transfer institutions may require a minimum cumulative
GPA, a higher GPA in a selected subset of courses, or a minimum grade in subjects
like Math or English. Students are strongly encouraged to meet early with both
their TCC advisor and their intended transfer institution to confirm that course
selections align with both graduation requirements at TCC and admission criteria
at the transfer school. Because courses in this pathway may fulfill different
requirements depending on the major, students should carefully verify how each
course fits into their intended program of study.
ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
CSACSAA Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable 90 credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is for the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Communication, Humanities, or Social
Sciences.
• No more than three physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• At least five credits applied to the degree must be an approved
multicultural course. Approved multicultural courses are identified
on the Approved Distribution Course List and in the credit course
descriptions.
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition I
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
Composition II or Technical Writing or Oral Communication
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
OR CMST&220 - Public Speaking
OR CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Second Communication Skills course should be selected based on transfer
institution.
Whitworth & Gonzaga- Oral Communication in place of English
Composition II or Technical Writing
Washington State University – Strongly recommend Technical Writing
instead of Composition II to meet degree requirements at transfer
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Calculus Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
Humanities (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities Courses
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Social Science Courses
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Math Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
Lab Science Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
• BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III

@@@PAGE 173@@@
---LEFT---
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&263 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab III
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Recommended Courses:
PHYS&221 Engineering Physics - Mechanics - Engineering Physics -
Mechanics
PHYS&222 Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism - Engineering
Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
Important Note: Beginning Spring 2026, the order of the biology courses
listed as an options above will change to: BIOL& 222 → BIOL& 221→
BIOL&223. Additionally, BIOL& 160 will no longer be required as a
prerequisite for this sequence . Students beginning this degree in Fall 2025
or later who plan to take Biology sequence should not enroll in BIOL&
160 unless specifically advised to do so. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM)
Pathway Advising.
Core Requirement (10 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
• CS143 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists II
Electives (20 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer institution
and may include prerequisites for major courses (e.g.,
pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific general
education. Students should work closely with their advisor on
course selection.
• No more than 15 credits in this category may be from courses
that are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution
Course List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Recommended Courses:
COL101 College 101 - College 101
CS120 Computer Science Principles - Computer Science Principals
ENGL&235 Technical Writing - Technical Writing
MATH&141 Precalculus I - Precalculus I
MATH&142 Precalculus II - Precalculus II
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics - Introduction to Statistics
MATH&153 Calculus III - Calculus III
MATH220 Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra
MATH&254 Calculus IV - Calculus IV
PHYS&221 Engineering Physics - Mechanics - Engineering Physics -
Mechanics
PHYS&222 Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism - Engineering
Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
PHYS&223 Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and Thermodynamics -
---RIGHT---
Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and Thermodynamics
or other lab course listed as Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the
2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course List.
Program Map
Associate in Computer Science DTA/MRP Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 174@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
CS120 - Computer Science Principles
General Information
Introduction to fundamental concepts of computer science and computational
thinking. Course includes logical reasoning, problem solving, data representation,
abstraction, the creation of digital artifacts such as Web pages and programs,
managing complexity, operation of computers and networks, effective Web
searching, ethical, legal and social aspects of information technology.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Recommended Preparation: Proficiency in Algebra.
---RIGHT---
CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
General Information
Using the Java programming language, students learn general principles of
object-oriented programming, including how to design, implement, document, test,
and debug computer programs. Topics include classes, objects, messages,
expressions, decision structures, iteration, arrays, collections, events, and
interfaces.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MATH&141 - Precalculus I
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Science
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CS120 - Computer Science Principles
Additional Comments:
Prior programming experience also sufficient

@@@PAGE 175@@@
---LEFT---
CS143 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists II
General Information
An intermediate programming course, using Java. Topics will include classes,
interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism, exception handling, recursion, data
structures, and an introduction to performance analysis and implementation
trade-offs.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Science
Prerequisite: CS 142 with a minimum grade of C
Computer User Department
For more information on our Advanced Networking and Data Security Department:
Advances Networking and Data Security Department Chair: Christine Cerny - ccerny@tacomacc.edu
Courses
CU100 - Introduction to Practical Computing
General Information
To provide individuals with an opportunity to cultivate the computer usage skills
necessary to become confident, successful students. This course is an introduction
to computer usage skills using the most current Microsoft Windows operating
system. Topics include: developing computer literacy, navigation, organization,
printing, file location and management, accessing help.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/Human Development
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HD101 - Student Success Seminar (Inactive)
AND ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
---RIGHT---
Advanced Networking & Data Security : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)
CU101 - Web-Enabled Learning and Communication
General Information
Introduction to web-enabled learning and communication. Student will receive
guidance in how to effectively navigate and use online TCC resources; Angel,
Portal, Outlook Web Access. Emphasis on virtual communication, security
concerns, Internet search effectiveness, and ethical behaviors for virtual learning
communities.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Chair Permission
Prerequisite: Knowledge of Microsoft Windows operating system
required or Program Chair Permission Recommended Preparation: CU
100

@@@PAGE 176@@@
---LEFT---
CU102 - Word I
General Information
Students will use MSWord to create multi-page documents for a variety of
purposes and situations such as reports, newsletters, resumes and business
correspondence. This course can be used as preparation for the MOS Word Core
Level certification exam. Students may receive college credit for either CU 102 or
CU 105, but not both.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU100 - Introduction to Practical Computing
CU103 - Excel I
General Information
Students will create and edit a workbook with multiple sheets and use a graphic
element to visually represent data. Workbookexamples include
professional-looking budgets, financial statements, team performance charts, sales
invoices, and data-entry logs. This course can be used as preparation for the MOS
Excel Core Level certification exam. Students may receive credit for either CU 103
or CU 105, but not both.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU100 - Introduction to Practical Computing
---RIGHT---
CU104 - PowerPoint
General Information
Students will create, edit, and enhance presentations and slideshows. Presentation
examples include professional-grade sales presentations, employee training,
instructional materials, and kiosk slideshows. This course can be used as
preparation for the MOS PowerPoint Core Level certification exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Prerequisite: CU 102 with a minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently) or CU 105 with a minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently)
CU105 - Word I & Excel I
General Information
Students will use MS Word to create multi-page documents for a variety of
purposes and situations such as reports, newsletters, resumes and business
correspondence. Students will also use MS Excel to will create and edit a workbook
with multiple sheets, and use a graphic element to represent data visually.
Workbook examples include professional-looking budgets, financial statements,
team performance charts, sales invoices, and data-entry logs. This course can be
used for preparation for the MOS Word Core Level certification exam and the
MOS Excel Core Level certification exam. This course is equivalent to the
combination of CU102 and CU103. Students may receive 5 college credits only for
CU 105, CU 102, or CU 103 or any combination of the three courses.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU100 - Introduction to Practical Computing

@@@PAGE 177@@@
---LEFT---
CU108 - Outlook
General Information
Students will use MS Outlook to enhance professional correspondence, create
calendars, and schedule appointments. Application examples include coordinating
building resources, sending messages for marketing campaigns, planning staff
meetings, and assigning meeting action items. This course can be used as
preparation for the MOS Outlook Core Level certification exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Prerequisite: CU 105 with a minimum grade of C or equivalent or CU 102
with a minimum grade of C
CU110 - Access I
General Information
Students will apply database design principles to create and maintain basic MS
Access database objects including tables, relationships, forms, reports, and queries.
This course, along with CU 210, can be used as preparation for the MOS Access
Core Level certification exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Prerequisite: CU 103 with a minimum grade of C or CU 105 with a
minimum grade of C or equivalent
---RIGHT---
CU202 - Word II
General Information
Students will use MS Word to create and manage professional documents of four
pages or more for a variety of specialized purposes and situations. They will learn
to customize the Word environment to meet project needs and enhance
productivity. Examples of documents include a business plan, a research paper, a
book, a specialized brochure, and a mass mailing. This course can be used for
preparation for the MOS Word Expert Level certification exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Prerequisite: CU 102 with a minimum grade of C or CU 105 with a
minimum grade of C or equivalent
CU203 - Excel II
General Information
Student will be able to create, manage, and distribute professional spreadsheets
for a variety of specialized purposes and situations. They will customize their Excel
environments to meet project needs and to enhance productivity. Expert
workbook examples include custom business templates, multiple-axis financial
charts, amortization tables, and inventory schedules. This course can be used for
preparation for the MOS Excel Expert Level certification.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Prerequisite: CU 103 with a minimum grade of C or CU 105 with a
minimum grade of C or equivalent

@@@PAGE 178@@@
---LEFT---
CU210 - Access II
General Information
Students will apply database design principles to create and maintain advanced MS
Access database objects including tables, relationships, forms, reports, queries,
macros, and modules. This course can be used as preparation for the MOS Access
Core Level certification exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• CU110 - Access I
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Department
For more information on our Diagnostic Medical Sonography Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/dms/
Department Email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Program Chair: Shea Bower - sbower@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 179@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 180@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Diagnostic Medical
Sonography
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Catalog Description
The Diagnostic Medical Sonography program prepares students for employment
as a Sonographer working in ultrasound imaging. It is a full-time, two-year program
(8 consecutive quarters, including two summer quarters) leading to an Associate in
Applied Sciences (AAS) degree. Upon graduation, students will be eligible to take
the ARDMS exams in the Abdomen and OB/GYN specialties.
Students complete classroom and laboratory work at TCC and clinical education in
an affiliated ultrasound department. Clinical positions are assigned and often take
place in hospital ultrasound departments, clinics and private physicians' offices.
Students acquire skills in reviewing and recording pertinent clinical patient history;
performing the sonographic examinations; providing patient comfort and needs
during the examination; and recording anatomic, pathologic, and physiologic data
for interpretation by supervising physicians.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
115 DMUDSAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Prerequisite Coursework
• Minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA in prerequisite courses.
• Minimum C+ (2.3) in each prerequisite course.
• ALL prerequisite courses must be complete (with a final
grade) prior to submitting an application.
• It is strongly recommended that math and science
prerequisites be completed within the past 5 years.
• Students who completed prerequisite coursework at a college
other than TCC must submit an official transcript to
Enrollment Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency.
For details, visit Enrollment Services - Transfer Credits to
TCC.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
• BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
OR ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
• MATH&141 - Precalculus I
---RIGHT---
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
OR CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
OR CMST&220 - Public Speaking
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
• PHYS&115 - General Physics II
OR PHYS&116 - General Physics III
PHYS&116 General Physics III will be accepted only if it was completed in
2025 or earlier.
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 115 quarter credit hours in courses numbered
100 or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable 115 credits must be earned at
Tacoma Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this
degree must submit an official transcript to
Enrollment Services for evaluation. All coursework
must be from a regionally accredited institution to
be considered for equivalency. For more
information, visit Transfer Credits to TCC or
Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.30 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found
here or by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Program Requirements (115 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Quarter One (14 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS105 - Fundamentals of Sonography + Lab I
• DMS113 - Gynecology and Obstetrics I
• DMS114 - Abdominal Sonography
• DMS130 - Ultrasound Physics and Instrumentation I
Quarter Two (14 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS106 - Sonography Lab II
• DMS115 - Abdominal Sonography Extended (Small Parts and
Superficial Structures)
• DMS116 - Pathophysiology
• DMS131 - Ultrasound Physics and Instrumentation II
Quarter Three (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS107 - Sonography Lab III
• DMS123 - Gynecology And Obstetrics II
• DMS125 - Advanced Sonography
• DMS140 - Clinical Preparedness

@@@PAGE 181@@@
---LEFT---
Quarter Four (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS108 - Sonography Lab IV
• DMS126 - Obstetrical Sonography III
• DMS151 - Ultrasound Clinical I
Quarter Five (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS160 - Reflective Practicum I
• DMS250 - Ultrasound Clinical II
Quarter Six (15 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS260 - Reflective Practicum II
• DMS251 - Ultrasound Clinical III
Quarter Seven (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS270 - Sonography Registry Review
• DMS252 - Ultrasound Clinical IV
Quarter Eight (15 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• DMS280 - Sonographic Specialties
OR DMS299 - Clinical Independent Study
• DMS253 - Ultrasound Clinical V
Program Accreditation
Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education
Programs (CAAHEP)
9356 113th St. N, #7709 Last Accreditation Review Accreditation Letter
Seminole, FL 33775 2018 CAAHEP DMS TCC
727-210-2350 2021.pdf
https://www.caahep.org/
TCC's Diagnostic Medical Sonography program is accredited in the
Abdomen-Extended and OB/GYN concentrations.
Joint Review Committee on Education in Diagnostic
Medical Sonography (JRC-DMS)
6021 University Boulevard Last Accreditation Review
Suite 500 2018
Ellicott City, MD 21043
https://www.jrcdms.org/
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Diagnostic Medical Sonography Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Healthcare Pathways Advising
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 182@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
DMS105 - Fundamentals of Sonography + Lab I
General Information
This is the first of a four-part lab series (DMS 105, DMS 106, DMS 107 and DMS
108) designed to develop the foundations of sonography and cross-sectional
anatomy. This course introduces students to more complex sonographic exams and
patient care techniques. Students will learn how to apply critical thinking and
problem-solving skills, and hone interpersonal communication techniques while
working in a simulated healthcare setting. Activities will emphasize the use of
medical terminology (directional, anatomic, and sonographic), anatomic
relationships, scanning techniques and image optimization while focusing on
patient care and communication.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into DMS program with all program prerequisites completed
with a minimum grade of C+, or Program Chair approval.
DMS106 - Sonography Lab II
General Information
This is the second of a four-part lab series (DMS 105, DMS 106, DMS 107 and DMS
108) designed to further develop and build on the foundations of sonography and
cross-sectional anatomy. This course introduces students to more complex
sonographic exams and patient care techniques. Students will learn how to apply
critical thinking and problem-solving skills, and hone interpersonal communication
techniques while working in a simulated healthcare setting. Activities will
emphasize the use of medical terminology (directional, anatomic, and sonographic),
anatomic relationships, scanning techniques and image optimization while focusing
on patient care and communication.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS105 - Fundamentals of Sonography + Lab I
---RIGHT---
DMS107 - Sonography Lab III
General Information
This is the third of a four-part lab series (DMS 105, DMS 106, DMS 107, and
DMS108) designed to further develop and build on the foundations of sonography
and cross-sectional anatomy. This course introduces students to more complex
sonographic exams and patient care techniques. Students will learn how to apply
critical thinking and problem-solving skills, and hone interpersonal communication
techniques while working in a simulated healthcare setting. Activities will
emphasize the use of medical terminology (directional, anatomic, and sonographic),
anatomic relationships, scanning techniques and image optimization while focusing
on patient care and communication.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS106 - Sonography Lab II

@@@PAGE 183@@@
---LEFT---
DMS108 - Sonography Lab IV
General Information
This is the final course of a four-part lab series (DMS 105, DMS 106, DMS 107 and
DMS 108) designed to further develop and build on the foundations of sonography,
cross-sectional anatomy. This course introduces students to more complex
sonographic exams and patient care techniques, including situational challenges in
obstetrical sonography. Students will learn how to apply critical thinking and
problem-solving skills, and hone interpersonal communication techniques while
working in a simulated healthcare setting. Activities will emphasize the use of
medical terminology (directional, anatomic, and sonographic), anatomic
relationships, scanning techniques and image optimization while focusing on
patient care and communication.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Course
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS107 - Sonography Lab III
DMS113 - Gynecology and Obstetrics I
General Information
This is the first of a three-part series (DMS 113, DMS 123, and DMS 126) that
focuses on obstetrics and gynecology. This course will focus on the anatomy,
physiology, and sonographic appearance of gynecologic and first trimester
obstetric structures. Clinical indications, imaging considerations and patient care
requirements specific to obstetric and gynecological patients will also be covered.
Students will learn the pathologic processes associated with gynecology, first
trimester obstetric complications, and gain skills related to identifying and
documenting abnormalities.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into DMS program
Acceptance into program with all program prerequisites completed with a
minimum grade of C+, or Program Chair approval.
---RIGHT---
DMS114 - Abdominal Sonography
General Information
This course focuses on the anatomy, physiology and sonographic appearance of
abdominal organs and structures. Students will be introduced to the fundamentals
of abdominal sonographic terminology, image identification and optimization in
addition to lab values and clinical findings.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into program with all program prerequisites completed with a
minimum grade of C+, or Program Chair approval.
Acceptance into DMS program
DMS115 - Abdominal Sonography Extended (Small Parts
and Superficial Structures)
General Information
This course is an extension of Abdominal Sonography (DMS 114) and focuses on
assessing anatomy, pathology, vascular abnormalities, and postoperative changes
of the abdomen, thorax, and superficial structures, including the thyroid and
scrotum. Students will learn and apply the fundamentals of investigating disease
processes by evaluating high risk populations, associating clinical indications, and
identifying pathologic features in sonographic images. Students will apply their
knowledge by identifying pathologic features in sonographic images, as well as how
and when to communicate and expedite exam findings. Activities will emphasize
the use of medical terminology, problem-solving, communication and sonographic
image evaluations related to abdominothoracic and superficial structures.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS114 - Abdominal Sonography

@@@PAGE 184@@@
---LEFT---
DMS116 - Pathophysiology
General Information
This course is an extension of DMS 113 and DMS 114. Coursework will focus on
pathology assessment, vascular abnormalities, and postoperative changes of the
abdominal, thoracic, and pelvic organs, including early pregnancy and embryology.
Students will learn and apply the fundamentals of assessing disease processes
through the evaluation of medical histories and clinical indications. Students will
apply their knowledge by identifying pathologic features in sonographic images, as
well as how and when to communicate and expedite exam findings. Activities will
emphasize the use of medical terminology, problem-solving, communication and
sonographic image evaluations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
DMS Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS113 - Gynecology and Obstetrics I
• DMS114 - Abdominal Sonography
DMS123 - Gynecology And Obstetrics II
General Information
This is the second course in a three-part series (DMS 113, DMS 123, DMS 126)
covering the obstetric and post-partum periods as they relate to ultrasound
evaluations. The series focuses on the anatomy, physiology and sonographic
appearance of the developing pregnancy and the post-partum pelvis. Clinical
indications, imaging considerations, and patient care requirements specific to
abnormal findings, late-term and post-partum patients will be covered. Students
will learn basic imaging requirements of an obstetric ultrasound and the
application of distinguishing and documenting pathologic conditions.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS113 - Gynecology and Obstetrics I
---RIGHT---
DMS125 - Advanced Sonography
General Information
This is a capstone course designed to integrate material learned throughout the
didactic portion of the program. Critical analysis, problem solving, and independent
decision making will be emphasized to prepare students for the clinical portion of
the program. Case studies and patient care scenarios will be utilized throughout
this course. Refinement of communication skills, professionalism and correlation
with variable imaging modalities will also be included.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS115 - Abdominal Sonography Extended (Small Parts and
Superficial Structures)
• DMS116 - Pathophysiology
DMS126 - Obstetrical Sonography III
General Information
This is the third of a three – part series focusing on obstetrics (DMS 113, DMS 123,
and DMS 126) and is designed to integrate and build upon situational challenges in
obstetrical sonography. Students will be able to discuss fetal abnormalities,
maternal complications during pregnancy, complications of multiple gestations,
and challenging patient care scenarios. Critical analysis, problem solving, and
independent decision making will be emphasized to prepare students for the
clinical portion of the program. Case studies and patient care scenarios will be
utilized throughout this course. Refinement of communication skills and
professionalism will also be included.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Sonography Course
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS123 - Gynecology And Obstetrics II

@@@PAGE 185@@@
---LEFT---
DMS130 - Ultrasound Physics and Instrumentation I
General Information
The first course in a two-part series (DMS 130 and DMS 131), focusing on the
mastery of acoustic physics principles as they relate to image production and
optimization. Basic sound production and propagation, and sound wave interaction
with matter will be covered. Basic understanding of ultrasound machine and
transducer development, including potential bioeffects and patient safety
standards/ ALARA (As Low As Reasonably Achievable) will be covered. Students
will also begin creating a personalized study guide to utilize when preparing for
their first national registry exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into DMS program with all program prerequisites completed
with a minimum grade of C+, or Program Chair approval.
DMS131 - Ultrasound Physics and Instrumentation II
General Information
This is the second of a two-part series (DMS 130 and DMS 131) focusing on the
mastery of sonographic physics principles. Advanced theory will be covered,
including Doppler, harmonic imaging, and pulse phasing techniques. Quality
assurance, ALARA (As Low As Reasonably Achievable), bioeffects, safety
standards, and hemodynamics will also be covered. Students will complete their
study guides and prepare to sit for their first national registry exam, the
Sonography Principals and Instrumentation (SPI) exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS130 - Ultrasound Physics and Instrumentation I
---RIGHT---
DMS140 - Clinical Preparedness
General Information
This is the initial, introductory course in a six-part clinical education series (DMS
140, DMS 151, DMS 250, DMS 251, DMS 252 and DMS 253). This course will
include in-class didactic work as well as time spent working in a clinical
environment. Professional communication, ethical decision making, cultural
humility, conflict resolution, and the role of the student sonographer in a
healthcare team will be explored. Documentation of clinical requirements and
record keeping using clinical software will also be discussed. This course will also
focus on patient care with diverse populations, including vital sign assessment,
interventional procedures and patient safety protocols. Scope of practice,
compliance with national and industry standards, infection control, conflict
resolution, and advanced communication techniques will also be explored.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS106 - Sonography Lab II

@@@PAGE 186@@@
---LEFT---
DMS151 - Ultrasound Clinical I
General Information
This is the second course in a six-part clinical education series (DMS 140, DMS
151, DMS 250, DMS 251, DMS 252 and DMS 253) designed to integrate
knowledge and skills learned in the DMS Lab into a working clinical environment.
Under the guidance of clinical instructors, students will apply their fundamental
scanning, patient care, and clinical skills while performing a supportive role in the
imaging department.
Components Credits
Clinical 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS107 - Sonography Lab III
• DMS140 - Clinical Preparedness
ARDMS Examination
Successful completion of the ARDMS Sonography Principles and
Instrumentation (SPI) examination.
Additional Comments:
Or Program Chair approval.
---RIGHT---
DMS160 - Reflective Practicum I
General Information
This is the first of a two-part course (DMS 160 and DMS 260) that focuses on
student roles and experiences in the clinical setting. In this course, students will
reflect on their role in the clinical setting and educate their peers based on their
own learning experiences. Presentations and discussions will be centered on
analyzing barriers to learning and developing skills on how to overcome them,
strategies to maximize educational opportunities, and application of didactic
knowledge in the clinical setting. Students will plan a continuing education seminar
for the benefit of community sonographers.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Course
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS151 - Ultrasound Clinical I
or Program Chair Approval.
DMS250 - Ultrasound Clinical II
General Information
This is the third course in a six-part clinical education series (DMS 140, DMS 151,
DMS 250, DMS 251, DMS 252 and DMS 253) designed to integrate knowledge and
skills learned in the DMS Lab into a working clinical environment. Under the
guidance of clinical instructors, students will apply their fundamental scanning,
patient care, and clinical skills while performing a supportive role in the imaging
department.
Components Credits
Clinical 13
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Course
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS151 - Ultrasound Clinical I
or Program Chair Approval.

@@@PAGE 187@@@
---LEFT---
DMS251 - Ultrasound Clinical III
General Information
This is the fourth course in a six-part clinical education series (DMS 140, DMS 151,
DMS 250, DMS 251, DMS 252 and DMS 253). Students will integrate the
knowledge they have obtained in previous DMS Lab and Clinical courses into more
advanced patient-focused care. Under the guidance of clinical instructors, students
will apply their fundamental scanning, patient care, and clinical skills while
performing a supportive role in the imaging department.
Components Credits
Clinical 13
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Course
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS250 - Ultrasound Clinical II
or Program Chair approval.
DMS252 - Ultrasound Clinical IV
General Information
This is the fifth course in a six-part clinical education series (DMS 140, DMS 151,
DMS 250, DMS 251, DMS 252 and DMS 253). Students will integrate the
knowledge they have obtained in previous DMS Lab and Clinical courses into more
advanced patient-focused care. Under the guidance of clinical instructors, students
will apply their fundamental scanning, patient care, and clinical skills while
performing a supportive role in the imaging department.
Components Credits
Clinical 13
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Course
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS251 - Ultrasound Clinical III
or Program Chair Approval.
---RIGHT---
DMS253 - Ultrasound Clinical V
General Information
In the final quarter of the sonography program, students will utilize all knowledge
obtained in previous clinical coursework (DMS 140, DMS 151, DMS 250, DMS 251
and DMS 252). This course will build on that foundation and will introduce
advanced sonographic techniques including modality specialties. Advanced
didactic and education courses in abdominal extended, vascular, musculoskeletal,
maternal fetal medicine, and breast imaging techniques will be covered.
Components Credits
Clinical 12
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Ultrasound Clinical IV
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS252 - Ultrasound Clinical IV
DMS260 - Reflective Practicum II
General Information
This is the second of a two-part workshop course (DMS 160 and DMS 260) that
focuses on student roles and experiences in the clinical setting. In this course,
students will reflect on their role in the clinical setting and educate their peers
based on their own learning experiences. Case study presentations and discussions
will be centered on analyzing barriers to learning and developing skills on how to
overcome them, strategies to maximize educational opportunities, and application
of didactic knowledge in the clinical setting. Students will also work in conjunction
with DMS Faculty to plan and host a continuing education seminar for the benefit
of community sonographers.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Course
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS160 - Reflective Practicum I

@@@PAGE 188@@@
---LEFT---
DMS270 - Sonography Registry Review
General Information
Students will participate in on-campus group work, mock exams, and individual
study methods in order to fully review the totality of all completed coursework in
the DMS program. Students will study outlined materials in preparation to pass the
national registry exams for the Abdomen (AB) and Obstetrics and Gynecology
(OB/GYN) specialties, as required by the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical
Sonography (ARDMS).
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS251 - Ultrasound Clinical III
• DMS260 - Reflective Practicum II
or Program Chair Approval.
DMS280 - Sonographic Specialties
General Information
In the final quarter of the sonography program, students will learn about advanced
topics in sonography, including different modality specialties. Didactic coursework
in abdominal-extended, vascular, musculoskeletal, maternal fetal medicine, and
breast imaging techniques will be covered.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Ultrasound Clinical IV
Earn a minimum grade of C+ in the following:
• DMS252 - Ultrasound Clinical IV
or Program Chair Approval.
Early Childhood Education Department
For more information on our Early Childhood Education Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/early-childhood-education
Early Childhood Education Department Chair: Jennifer Karshna - jkarshna@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
DMS298 - Didactic Independent Study
General Information
This supplementary course allows students to continue their skill development in
the didactic portions of the Diagnostic Medical Sonography program.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 3 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Program Chair Approval.
DMS299 - Clinical Independent Study
General Information
This supplementary course allows students to continue their skill development in
the clinical setting.
Components Credits Max Credits
Clinical, Lab 4 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Diagnostic Medical Sonography
Program chair approval.

@@@PAGE 189@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 190@@@
---LEFT---
Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate
Catalog Description
The Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate is the first in a series of stackable
certificates within the Early Childhood Education program and is designed for
individuals currently working or planning to work with children from birth through
age eight and provides essential knowledge and skills for early learning
environments. This certificate serves as a foundational pathway towards the Early
Childhood Education Short Certificate of Specialization Certificate, Early
Childhood Education State Certificate: Emphasis on Children with Exceptionalities,
and Associate of Applied Science in Early Childhood Education with an Emphasis
on Children with Exceptionalities.
The curriculum is aligned with Washington State Core Competencies for Early
Care and Education Professionals.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
12 ECEECC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ECED&105 - Introduction to Early Childhood Education
• ECED&107 - Health/Safety/Nutrition
• ECED&120 - Practicum: Nurturing Relationships
Program Map
Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of
Specialization Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of Specialization Certificate
Catalog Description
The Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of Specialization in a series of
stackable certificates within the Early Childhood Education program and builds
upon the skills developed in the Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate. This
certificate provides focused training in a specific area of early learning, enhancing
students’ ability to support the developmental needs of children from birth
through age eight. It is designed for individuals currently working or planning to
work in early childhood settings and serves as a pathway towards the Early
Childhood Education State Certificate: Emphasis on Children with Exceptionalities
and the Associate of Applied Science in Early Childhood Education with an
Emphasis on Children with Exceptionalities.
The curriculum is aligned with Washington State Core Competencies for Early
Care and Education Professionals.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
20 ECEGEC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7
Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
To complete the Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of
Specialization, students must first complete the Early Childhood Education
Initial Certificate.
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ECED&105 - Introduction to Early Childhood Education
• ECED&107 - Health/Safety/Nutrition
• ECED&120 - Practicum: Nurturing Relationships
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 191@@@
---LEFT---
Core Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• EDUC&115 - Child Development
Specialization Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• EDUC&130 - Guiding Behavior
OR ECED&132 - Infant/Toddler Care
OR ECED&137 - Outdoor Learning for Young Children
OR ECED&139 - Administration of ECE
Completion of ECE141 Promoting Positive Behavior I - Promoting Positive
Behavior I, ECE142 Promoting Positive Behavior II - Promoting Positive
Behavior II, and ECE143 Promoting Positive Behavior III- Promoting
Positive Behavior III is equivalent to EDUC&130 Guiding Behavior -
Guiding Behavior and will satisfy the specialization course requirement. .
The following courses are not currently offered by Tacoma Community
College but meet the specialization course requirement per state
guidelines:
• ECED&134 - Family Child Care
• EDUC&136 - School Age Care
• ECED&138 - Home Visitor/Family Engagement
Note: EDUC& 130 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the ECE Children with Exceptionalities Certificate, but
not both.
Note: ECED& 139 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the AAS in ECE, but not both.
Program Map
Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of Specialization Certificate Program
Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Early Childhood Education State Certificate: Emphasis on
Children with Exceptionalities
Overview
Full Credential Title
Early Childhood Education State Certificate: Emphasis on Children with
Exceptionalities
Catalog Description
The Early Childhood Education State Certificate: Emphasis on Children with
Exceptionalities certificate is the third in a series of stackable certificates within
the Early Childhood Education program. This certificate builds upon the skills
developed in the Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate and Early Childhood
Education Short Certificate of Specialization Certificate. The curriculum
emphasizes inclusive practices and is especially attuned to working with children
from diverse cultural, linguistic, and ability backgrounds. Graduates of the program
are equipped for employment in a wide range of early learning environments,
including:
• Preschools and childcare centers
• Family child care settings
• Head Start and ECEAP programs
• Kindergarten through third grade classrooms (as teacher assistants)
• Early intervention programs (as teacher assistants)
• Other community-based early learning initiatives
The curriculum is aligned with Washington State Core Competencies for Early
Care and Education Professionals.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
55 ECECEC45 Fall 2025
SOC Code
25-2000 - Preschool, Elementary, Middle, Secondary, and Special Education
Teachers
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7
Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 192@@@
---LEFT---
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ECED&105 - Introduction to Early Childhood Education
• ECED&107 - Health/Safety/Nutrition
• ECED&120 - Practicum: Nurturing Relationships
Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of Specialization
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• EDUC&115 - Child Development
• EDUC&130 - Guiding Behavior
OR ECED&132 - Infant/Toddler Care
OR ECED&137 - Outdoor Learning for Young Children
OR ECED&139 - Administration of ECE
Completion of ECE141 Promoting Positive Behavior I - Promoting Positive
Behavior I, ECE142 Promoting Positive Behavior II - Promoting Positive
Behavior II, and ECE143 Promoting Positive Behavior III- Promoting
Positive Behavior III is equivalent to EDUC&130 Guiding Behavior -
Guiding Behavior and will satisfy the specialization course requirement. .
The following courses are not currently offered by Tacoma Community
College but meet the specialization course requirement per state
guidelines:
• ECED&134 - Family Child Care
• EDUC&136 - School Age Care
• ECED&138 - Home Visitor/Family Engagement
Note: EDUC& 130 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the ECE Children with Exceptionalities Certificate, but
not both.
Note: ECED& 139 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the AAS in ECE, but not both.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&107 - Math in Society
OR MATH&131 - Math for Elementary Education 1
OR MATH&132 - Math for Elementary Education 2
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• EDUC&150 - Child, Family, Community
• ECED&160 - Curriculum Development
• ECED&170 - Learning Environments
OR EDUC&130 - Guiding Behavior
• ECED&180 - Language and Literacy
• ECED&190 - Observation and Assessment
---RIGHT---
• EDUC&204 - Exceptional Child
• ECE290 - Practicum

@@@PAGE 193@@@
---LEFT---
Associate of Applied Science Transfer in Early Childhood
Education with an Emphasis on Children with
Exceptionalities
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate of Applied Science Transfer in Early Childhood Education with an
Emphasis on Children with Exceptionalities
Catalog Description
TCC's Early Childhood Education with an Emphasis on Children with
Exceptionalities degree is designed to develop the skills needed to be a successful
early childhood professional and is directed toward students planning to work with
young children, birth through eight years old, including those who are culturally,
linguistically, and ability diverse. Employment opportunities are in a variety of
settings, including preschools, childcare centers, family child care, Head Start/
ECEAP programs, kindergarten through third grade classrooms (as a teacher
assistant), early intervention programs (as a teacher assistant), and/or other early
learning programs.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 ECEECAAS Fall 2025
SOC Code
25-2000 - Preschool, Elementary, Middle, Secondary, and Special Education
Teachers
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
DEGREE COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable 90 credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• To Complete the Early Childhood Education with an Emphasis on
Children with Exceptionalities, you must first complete 1) the Early
Childhood Education Initial Certificate, 2) the Early Childhood
Education Short Certificate of Specialization, and 3) the Early
Childhood Education Emphasis on Children with Exceptionalities
Certificate (55 credits).
Early Childhood Education Initial Certificate (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ECED&105 - Introduction to Early Childhood Education
• ECED&107 - Health/Safety/Nutrition
• ECED&120 - Practicum: Nurturing Relationships
Early Childhood Education Short Certificate of Specialization (8 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
---RIGHT---
Includes all courses in the ECE Initial Certificate plus:
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EDUC&115 - Child Development
• EDUC&130 - Guiding Behavior
OR ECED&132 - Infant/Toddler Care
OR ECED&137 - Outdoor Learning for Young Children
OR ECED&139 - Administration of ECE
Completion of ECE141 Promoting Positive Behavior I - Promoting Positive
Behavior I, ECE142 Promoting Positive Behavior II - Promoting Positive
Behavior II, and ECE143 Promoting Positive Behavior III- Promoting
Positive Behavior III is equivalent to EDUC&130 Guiding Behavior -
Guiding Behavior and will satisfy the specialization course requirement. .
The following courses are not currently offered by Tacoma Community
College but meet the specialization course requirement per state
guidelines:
• ECED&134 - Family Child Care
• EDUC&136 - School Age Care
• ECED&138 - Home Visitor/Family Engagement
Note: EDUC& 130 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the ECE Children with Exceptionalities Certificate, but
not both.
Note: ECED& 139 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the AAS in ECE, but not both.
Early Childhood Education Emphasis on Children with Exceptionalities
Certificate (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitiatve Skills
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MATH&107 - Math in Society
OR MATH&131 - Math for Elementary Education 1
OR MATH&132 - Math for Elementary Education 2
Education Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EDUC&150 - Child, Family, Community
• ECED&160 - Curriculum Development
• ECED&170 - Learning Environments
OR EDUC&130 - Guiding Behavior
• ECED&180 - Language and Literacy
• ECED&190 - Observation and Assessment
• EDUC&204 - Exceptional Child
• ECE290 - Practicum
Note: EDUC& 130 may count towards either the ECE Short Certificate of
Specialization OR the ECE Children with Exceptionalities Certificate, but
not both.
Degree Requirements (35-40 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 194@@@
---LEFT---
Core Courses (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
• ECE102 - Math, Science, and Technology for Young Children
Humanities Distribution Courses (10 credits)
Choose two of the following courses in different disciplines.
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
AND
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ART&100 - Art Appreciation
• ART180 - Art for Elementary Education
• HUM&101 - Introduction to Humanities
• MUSC120 - Music in the Classroom
• MUSC&105 - Music Appreciation
Social Science Distribution Courses (10 credits)
Choose two of the following courses in different disciplines:
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
AND
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ANTH&100 - Survey of Anthropology
• HIST&146 - US History I
• HIST&147 - US History II
• HIST&148 - US History III
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
• SOC&201 - Social Problems
Natural Sciences Distribution Courses (5-10 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
Depending on transfer institution, students may opt to take 10 credits of
Natural Sciences courses. Students should consult with their academic
advisor or program chair to determine what Natural Sciences courses to
complete.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 195@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ECE102 - Math, Science, and Technology for Young
Children
General Information
This course focuses on the integration of developmentally appropriate math,
science, and technology content into the early childhood classroom curriculum.
The process of using inquiry tools and problem-solving strategies and focused
learning centers with content embedded in all other classroom areas is explored.
Examine numerous evidence-based instructional strategies for teaching young
children, birth to eight years old, including those who are culturally, linguistically
and ability diverse.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
ECE130 - Cultural Competency and Responsiveness in
Early Childhood Education
General Information
This course covers evidence-based practices related to providing responsive care
and education in home, classroom, and community settings serving culturally,
linguistically, and ability-diverse children, birth to eight-years-old, and their
families. Students will be required to examine their own personal culture and to
explore ways in which to become an effective teacher to each young child. Included
are strategies for helping teachers, children, families, and colleagues to
communicate, negotiate, and resolve dilemmas caused by cultural differences.
There will be a focus on using an anti-bias approach.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
ECE141 - Promoting Positive Behavior I
General Information
In this course students will explore social-emotional development and child
guidance. The foundational aspect of building relationships with children, including
those who are culturally, linguistically, and ability diverse, will be emphasized and
students will examine how terminology impacts adult perspectives on child
guidance. Completion of ECE 141, 142, 143 is equivalent to EDUC&130.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
ECE142 - Promoting Positive Behavior II
General Information
This course is an exploration of how the environment influences childrens
behavior. Environmental variables such as the physical and temporal aspects of the
classroom, interactions, and using social-emotional teaching strategies with all
children, including those who are culturally, linguistically, and ability diverse, will be
addressed. Completion of ECE 141, 142, 143 is equivalent to EDUC&130.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
---RIGHT---
ECE143 - Promoting Positive Behavior III
General Information
In this course, students will review the foundational components of child guidance
and learn about creating an individual plan for children who need extra support to
function effectively in the classroom. Students will compare teacher conduct as a
professional vs. a technician and address how to ensure success for each child,
including those who are culturally, linguistically, and ability diverse. Completion of
ECE 141, 142, 143 is equivalent to EDUC&130.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
ECE290 - Practicum
General Information
This is a 99 hour, supervised classroom experience in an integrated early childhood
education setting and is the capstone class for the Paraeducation program. This
includes birth to eight-year-old children who are culturally, linguistically, and
ability diverse in either a school and/or current work site. This practicum provides
students the opportunity to demonstrate the skills and knowledge they gained in
their previous early childhood education courses which must be successfully
completed before taking this class. Students are expected to follow practicum
expectations, procedures, responsibilities, and methods of evaluation. Criminal
background clearances are required.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Instructor permission AND criminal background clearances required.
ECED&105 - Introduction to Early Childhood Education
General Information
Explore the foundations of early childhood education. Examine theories defining
the field, issues, trends, best practices, and program models. Observe children,
professionals and programs in action.
Components Credits
Lecture 5

@@@PAGE 196@@@
---LEFT---
ECED&107 - Health/Safety/Nutrition
General Information
Introduction to the implementation of equitable health, safety, and nutrition
standards for the growing child in group care. Focus on federal Child Care Block
Grant funding (CCDF) requirements, Washington State licensing, and Head Start
Performance standards. Develop skills necessary to keep children health and safe,
report abuse and neglect, and connect families to community resources.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
ECED&120 - Practicum: Nurturing Relationships
General Information
In an early learning setting, engage in establishing nurturing, supportive
relationships with all children and professional peers. Focus on childrens health
and safety, promoting growth and development, and creating a culturally
responsive environment.
Components Credits
Clinical 2
ECED&132 - Infant/Toddler Care
General Information
Examine the unique developmental needs of infants and toddlers. Study the role of
the caregiver, relationships with families, developmentally appropriate practices,
nurturing environments for infants and toddlers, and culturally retentive care.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
ECED&137 - Outdoor Learning for Young Children
General Information
This course is an exploration of nature-based, outdoor learning experiences for all
young children. Students will identify the benefits of outdoor learning for children,
learn about the teacher’s role in supporting learning in the outdoor learning
environment, consider adult comfort levels with outdoor experiences, and examine
risk-taking as a part of learning.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
ECED&139 - Administration of ECE
General Information
Develop administrative skills required to develop, operate, manage, and improve
early childhood and care programs. Acquire basic business management skills.
Explore resources and supports for meeting Washington State licensing and
professional NAEYC standards.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
---RIGHT---
ECED&160 - Curriculum Development
General Information
Investigate learning theory, program planning, tools, and methods for curriculum
development that promotes language, fine/gross motor, social/emotional,
cognitive, and creative skills and growth in children birth through age eight by
using developmentally appropriate and culturally responsive practices.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
ECED&170 - Learning Environments
General Information
This class focuses on the adult's role in designing, evaluating, and improving indoor
and outdoor environments that ensure quality learning, nurturing experiences, and
optimal development of young children.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
ECED&180 - Language and Literacy
General Information
Teaching strategies for language acquisition and literacy skill development are
examined at each developmental stage (birth-age eight) through the four
interrelated areas of speaking, listening, writing, and reading.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
ECED&190 - Observation and Assessment
General Information
Collect and record observation and assessment data in order to plan for and
support the child, the family, the group, and the community. Practice reflection
techniques, summarizing conclusions, and communicating findings.
Components Credits
Lecture 3

@@@PAGE 197@@@
---LEFT---
Earth Sciences Department
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 198@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Earth Sciences
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Earth Sciences Specialization
Catalog Description
The Earth Sciences Specialization of the Associate in Science Transfer Track 1
degree provides a well-rounded foundation to support students who wish to major
in earth sciences.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LRST1AS Code Fall 2025
90 EARTH SCIE
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (38 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
Geology Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• GEOL&101 - Introduction to Physical Geology
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism

@@@PAGE 199@@@
---LEFT---
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Electives (17 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Associate of Science Elective Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Associate in Science Track 1 Electives
College Level Electives
Complete 12 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90
credits.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses
that are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution
Course List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Recommended Courses:
GEOG210 Maps, GIS and the Environment - Maps, GIS, and the
Environment
Additional Comments:
Elective courses should be selected based on major and transfer institution.
See your advisor for suggestions.
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Earth Sciences Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
Economics Department
For more information on our Business and Accounting Department: Business & Accounting
Economics Program Chair: Jim Reisdorf - jreisdorf@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
: Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 200@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ECON&201 - Micro Economics
General Information
Theory of the market systems as a method of allocating resources and distributing
income and products. Analysis of current problems including government
regulation, subsidies, monopoly, and taxation.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math/Adult Basic Education
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or MATH 085 with
a minimum grade of C or ABE 085 with a minimum grade of C
Additional Comments:
Completion of Math Directed Self Placement tool is also suffcient. All courses
must be completed with a C grade or higher.
ECON&202 - Macro Economics
General Information
History and development of the economy of the United States economy, including
effects of government taxing and spending, control of the money supply, and
effects of international trade.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or MATH 085 with
a minimum grade of C or ABE 085 with a minimum grade of C
Additional Comments:
Completion of Math Directed Self Placement tool is also suffcient. All courses
must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Education Department
For more information on our Early Childhood Education Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/early-childhood-education
Early Childhood Education Department Chair: Jennifer Karshna - jkarshna@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 201@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 202@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Elementary Education
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Elementary Education Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Elementary Education Specialization prepares students for careers in teaching
by introducing key concepts in child development, learning theory, and
instructional practices. This pathway is ideal for students intending to pursue a
bachelor’s degree in education and ultimately become certified elementary
educators.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions, having satisfied most or all
lower-division general education requirements. Students planning to transfer out
of state should consult with their intended institution to ensure course
transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 ELEMENTARY
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Elementary Education Specialization Requirements
---RIGHT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Foundation Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ART180 - Art for Elementary Education
OR MUSC120 - Music in the Classroom
OR ENGL262 - Children's Literature
• EDUC&205 - Introduction to Education w/ Field Experience
• EDUC220 - Diversity in Education
• MATH&131 - Math for Elementary Education 1
• MATH&132 - Math for Elementary Education 2
• PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.

@@@PAGE 203@@@
---LEFT---
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Elementary Education Specialization Foundation Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&131 - Math for Elementary Education 1
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Elementary Education Specialization Foundation Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ART180 - Art for Elementary Education
• MUSC120 - Music in the Classroom
• ENGL262 - Children's Literature
AND
Additional Humanities Distribution Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at last two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Elementary Education Specialization Foundation Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EDUC&205 - Introduction to Education w/ Field Experience
• EDUC220 - Diversity in Education
• PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
---RIGHT---
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Mathematics Course
Elementary Education Specialization Foundation Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&132 - Math for Elementary Education 2
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from college level courses numbered 100 or
above.
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Elementary Education Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Social Sciences Distribution to
fulfill up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural
requirement, one specialization requirement, and one distribution
requirement.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
EDUC220 Diversity in Education - Diversity in Education (Elementary
Education Specialization Course & Multicultural Course)
PSYC&200 Lifespan Psychology - Lifespan Psychology (Elementary
Education Specialization Course, Social Science Distribution, & Multicultural
Course)

@@@PAGE 204@@@
---LEFT---
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Elementary Education Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.
Courses
EDUC&115 - Child Development
General Information
The purpose of this course is to provide the student with an overview of the study
of child development, including those children who are culturally, linguistically, and
ability diverse. The scientific and theoretical approaches to studying the
development of the physical, cognitive, communication, social, and emotional
changes that occur from conception through adolescence and the biological and/or
environmental influences that affect this development will be addressed. Materials
and resources regarding communication with families, brain development, and
milestones for each stage of development will also be provided. Four field
observations within inclusive child care settings are required outside of class time.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
EDUC&130 - Guiding Behavior
General Information
Examine the principles and theories promoting social competence in young
children and creating safe environments. Develop skills in promoting effective
interactions, providing positive individual guidance, and enhancing group
experiences. Completion of ECE 141, 142, 143 is equivalent to EDUC&130.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
EDUC&150 - Child, Family, Community
General Information
Integrate the family and community contexts in which a child develops. Explore
cultures and demographics of families in society, community resources, strategies
for involving families in the education of their child, and tools for effective
communication.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
---RIGHT---
EDUC&204 - Exceptional Child
General Information
This introductory course will address supports and services across home and
community settings for culturally, linguistically, and ability diverse young children,
ages birth to eight. Emphasis will be placed on identifying and using
evidence-based practices for working with children with special needs and their
families, and the resources and tools for navigating early intervention and special
education services, including the history, legislation, policies, and competencies
that guide early intervention in the State of Washington. As part of this course, 40
hours in a supervised Field Experience are required. The integration of theory and
developmentally appropriate evidence-based practice will be expected. Emphasis
will be placed on professional relationships, appropriate adult/child interactions,
basic curriculum planning, and program routines for young children with special
needs and their families. A criminal background check is required.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
EDUC&205 - Introduction to Education w/ Field
Experience
General Information
Designed for students who are considering teaching as a profession, the course will
examine historical and philosophical foundations of American education, learning
theories, contemporary students, and curriculum development. The course will
also explore the social, political, cultural, and economic pressures that influence
current issues and trends in education. . Includes a required field experience in a
public school K-12 setting (40 hours) that provides students opportunities to
observe and reflect upon todays classrooms, students, and teachers.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I

@@@PAGE 205@@@
---LEFT---
EDUC220 - Diversity in Education
General Information
Examination of the relationship of cultural values to the formation of the child's
self-concept and learning styles. Examination of the role of prejudice, stereotyping
and cultural incompatibilities in education. Emphasis on preparing future teachers
to offer an equal educational opportunity to children of all socioeconomic and
cultural groups, as well as inclusion of exceptional children. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
EDUC299 - Early Childhood Field Experience
General Information
A 2-credit course based on an independent study contracted between an
instructor and a student. This class is taken concurrently with EDP-100 wich will
provide the opportunity to work with children in ECE classrooms, learning and
implementing developmentally appropriate practices in guidance, curriculum,
observation, assessment and the preparation of the physical environment.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Early Childhood Education
Enroll in the following Courses:
• ECED&105 - Introduction to Early Childhood Education
Emergency and Medical Health Services Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/healthcare/emergency-medical-services/index
Email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Program Chair: Josh Wright - jwright@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 206@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 207@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Emergency Medical and
Health Services
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Emergency Medical and Health Services
Catalog Description
The Associate in Applied Science in Emergency Medical and Health Services builds
on the Paramedic certificate to provide students with a comprehensive academic
and professional foundation in emergency medical care and health systems. This
degree equips graduates with the skills and knowledge needed to meet state
certification requirements and to take the National Registry EMT-Paramedic
examination. In addition, it offers a clear pathway for continued education through
seamless transfer to baccalaureate programs, such as TCC’s Bachelor of Applied
Science in Community Health.
Admission to the Paramedic program is not guaranteed upon general TCC
admission. Students must complete a secondary selective admission process.
Students are strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review
the program’s webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection
criteria, and required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
99-101 EMPEMAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 99 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
Emergency Medical Technician Certificate (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS110 - Emergency Medical Technician
• EMS111 - Emergency Medical Technician Lab
Note: Students who possess EMT Intermediate Certification for a
minimum of one year that have not completed their Emergency Medical
Technician Certificate at TCC will receive Prior Learning Assessment (PLA)
credits that are equivalent to EMS110 Emergency Medical Technician &
EMS111 Emergency Medical Technician Lab.
Paramedic Certificate (62 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Summer (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS215 - Human Body Systems
• EMS216 - Introduction to Emergency Medical Care
• EMS217 - Prehospital Emergency Pharmacology
---RIGHT---
• EMS240 - Paramedic Crisis Resource Management
Second Quarter - Fall (16 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
• EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
• EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
• EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
Third Quarter - Winter (19 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS219 - Advanced Electrocardiography
• EMS220 - Management of Traumatic Injuries and Special
Populations
• EMS226 - Paramedic Skills Lab II
• EMS231 - Medical Emergencies II
• EMS251 - Paramedic Clinical II
Fourth Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS227 - Paramedic Skills Lab III
• EMS232 - Medical Emergencies III
• EMS252 - Paramedic Clinical III
Degree Requirements (25-27 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirement (2 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS200 - Contemporary Issues in Pre-hospital Care
Note: This course runs once a year in Spring Quarter.
General Education Requirements (20 credits)
The majority of these requirements are satisfied with prerequiste
coursework required for Paramedic Certificate Program.
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Quantitative Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
AND
Natural Sciences - Human Anatomy (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
AND

@@@PAGE 208@@@
---LEFT---
Social Science, Humanities, or Natural Sciences (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
BIOL&242 Human Anatomy and Physiology 2 - Human Anatomy and
Physiology 2 recommended for students planning to transfer to a
baccalaureate program in Emergency Medical Services.
Medical Terminology Requirement (3-5 Credits)
This requirement satisfied with prerequiste coursework required for
Paramedic Certificate Program.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
Program Accreditation
Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education
Programs (CAAHEP)
9355 113th St. N, #7709 Last Accreditation Review Accreditation Letter
Seminole, FL 33775 2023 2024 CAAHEP TCC
https://www.caahep.org/ Paramedic.pdf
Committee on Accreditation of Educational Programs for
the Emergency Medical Services Professions (CoAEMSP)
8301 Lakeview Parkway
Suite 111-312
Rowlett, TX 75088
http://coaemsp.org/
---RIGHT---
Emergency Medical Technician Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Emergency Medical Technician Certificate
Catalog Description
The Emergency Medical Technician Certificate program is designed to prepare
graduates to meet state certification requirements and to take the National
Registry EMT examination. Students can build upon this certificate to earn the
Paramedic certificate or an associate degree. Emergency Medical Technicians
provide basic life support and transportation for victims of illness and injury.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
12 EMAETC01 Winter 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework applied
to the certificate
• To apply for EMT certification in Washington State, applicants must
be at least 18 years old and possess a high school diploma or GED.
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS110 - Emergency Medical Technician
• EMS111 - Emergency Medical Technician Lab

@@@PAGE 209@@@
---LEFT---
Paramedic Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Paramedic Certificate
Catalog Description
The Paramedic Certificate program builds upon the Emergency Medical Technician
Certificate and is designed to prepare graduates to meet state certification
requirements and to take the National Registry EMT-Paramedic examination.
Paramedics play a critical role in emergency medical services, acting as the eyes,
ears, and hands of an emergency physician in the field. Career opportunities
include positions with fire departments, hospitals, and private ambulance services.
Students can build upon this certificate to earn the Associate of Applied Science in
Emergency Medical and Health Services.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation. Before applying to the Paramedic program, students
must obtain their EMT certificate and have documentation of a minimum of 1 year
of active EMT experience (volunteer experience is acceptable).
Admission is competitive and there are usually more program applicants than
available positions. Students who complete program prerequisites are not
guaranteed program admission.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
62 EMPPAC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements - Courses (30-37 credits)
Type
Prerequisite
EMT Certification & Experience
EMT Certification & Experience
• State and/or National Certification with Registry (NREMT).
Note: Students who possess EMT Intermediate Certification
for a minimum of one year that have not completed their EMT
Basic Certificate at TCC will receive Prior Learning
Assessment (PLA) credits that are equivalent to EMS110
Emergency Medical Technician - Emergency Medical
Technician & EMS111 Emergency Medical Technician Lab -
Emergency Medical Technician Lab for a total of 12 credits.
Students who earn credit EMS110 and EMS111 through Prior
Learning Assessment are not eligible to earn the EMT
Certificate due to residency requirements.
• Minimum of one-year of pre-hospital experience working as
an EMT prior to the application deadline.
Prerequisite Coursework (18-25 Credits)
• Minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA in prerequisite courses.
• Minimum C (2.0) in each prerequisite course.
• Prerequiste courses must be completed within the past 7
years.
---RIGHT---
• Students who completed prerequisite coursework at a college
other than TCC must submit an official transcript to
Enrollment Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency.
For details, visit Enrollment Services - Transfer Credits to
TCC.
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Quantitative Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
AND
Human Anatomy (5-10 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
AND BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
BIOL&241 and BIOL&242 recommended for students planning to
transfer to a bachelor's degree program in Emergency Medical Services.
AND
Medical Terminology (3-5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
OR HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework
applied to the certificate
Core Requirements (62 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Summer (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS215 - Human Body Systems
• EMS216 - Introduction to Emergency Medical Care
• EMS217 - Prehospital Emergency Pharmacology
• EMS240 - Paramedic Crisis Resource Management

@@@PAGE 210@@@
---LEFT---
Second Quarter - Fall (16 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
• EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
• EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
• EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
Third Quarter - Winter (19 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS219 - Advanced Electrocardiography
• EMS220 - Management of Traumatic Injuries and Special
Populations
• EMS226 - Paramedic Skills Lab II
• EMS231 - Medical Emergencies II
• EMS251 - Paramedic Clinical II
Fourth Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS227 - Paramedic Skills Lab III
• EMS232 - Medical Emergencies III
• EMS252 - Paramedic Clinical III
Program Accreditation
Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education
Programs (CAAHEP)
9355 113th St. N, #7709 Last Accreditation Review Accreditation Letter
Seminole, FL 33775 2023 2024 CAAHEP TCC
https://www.caahep.org/ Paramedic.pdf
Committee on Accreditation of Educational Programs for
the Emergency Medical Services Professions (CoAEMSP)
8301 Lakeview Parkway
Suite 111-312
Rowlett, TX 75088
http://coaemsp.org/
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 211@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
EMS110 - Emergency Medical Technician
General Information
Upon completion of this course, students are prepared to fulfill state and/or
National Registry requirements for certification as an EMT-Basic, the entry level
position in EMS for pre-hospital care providers. EMT-Bs provide basic life support
and transportation for victims of illness and injury. Includes 121 hours of lecture
and practical class-work time, and some clinical observation. Class also meets a
portion of the prerequisites for the Paramedic program. Program adheres to the
U.S. Department of Transportation guidelines and the Washington State
Department of Social and Health Services standards.
Components Credits
Lecture 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Emergency Medical Services Basic
Enroll in the following Courses:
• EMS111 - Emergency Medical Technician Lab
EMS111 - Emergency Medical Technician Lab
General Information
Laboratory Section for the EMT Basic course.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Enroll in the following Courses:
• EMS110 - Emergency Medical Technician
---RIGHT---
EMS112 - Emergency Medical Technician Recertification
General Information
For the currently certified EMT-Basic who needs to fulfill state, county, and/or
National Registry requirements for recertification.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Chair Permission
Prerequisite: Current state, county, or National Registry EMT-Basic
Certification AND Program Chair permission.
EMS140 - Supplemental Education for EMC Programs I
General Information
This course offers individualized didactic instruction to assist previously educated
and/or certified personnel in meeting state, county, local or national certification or
recertification requirements.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
CMD Recommendation/Instructor Permission
Recommendation of County Medical Director AND instructor
permission.

@@@PAGE 212@@@
---LEFT---
EMS150 - Supplemental Education for EMC Programs II
General Information
This course offers individualized clinical instruction to assist previously educated
and/or certified personnel in meeting state, county, local or national certification or
recertification requirements.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
CMD Recommendation/Instructor Permission
Recommendation of County Medical Director AND instructor
permission.
EMS200 - Contemporary Issues in Pre-hospital Care
General Information
This is a dynamic course that focuses on the various components of quality EMS.
The course utilizes assorted current readings in conjunction with small group work
that promotes critical thinking and a global understanding of what comprises state
of the art out-of-hospital care.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Paramedic Program
---RIGHT---
EMS215 - Human Body Systems
General Information
Review of Anatomy and Physiology, Patho-physiology and Life Span Development.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Paramedic program or Emergency Medical & Health
Services AAS degree program.
EMS216 - Introduction to Emergency Medical Care
General Information
EMC introduces the concept of pre-hospital care. Fundamental principles of the
practice are presented in this hybrid course, i.e., medical ethics, role &
responsibilities, critical thinking, medical math, and health and wellness.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Paramedic program or Emergency
Medical & Health Services AAS degree program.

@@@PAGE 213@@@
---LEFT---
EMS217 - Prehospital Emergency Pharmacology
General Information
Course relating between specific emergencies to the types of medications used for
treatment. Includes classifications, actions, indications, administration and
dosages, as well as side effects of each medication used in pre-hospital treatment
of medical and traumatic injuries. In addition students will learn common
prescription medications found in the home.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Paramedic program or Emergency Medical & Health
Services AAS degree program.
EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
General Information
Fundamentals of electrocardiography and interpretation of normal and abnormal
ECG patterns. Normal and abnormal wave patterns, presentation, and treatment
of common cardiac diseases.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS215 - Human Body Systems
• EMS216 - Introduction to Emergency Medical Care
• EMS217 - Prehospital Emergency Pharmacology
---RIGHT---
EMS219 - Advanced Electrocardiography
General Information
Building upon basic ECG knowledge, this course advances into 12-lead ECG
interpretation and pre-hospital treatment. Focusing on signs and symptoms of
ischemia or infarction, axis deviation, and other ECG anomalies, students learn
about various treatment modalities.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
AND EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
AND EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
AND EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
EMS220 - Management of Traumatic Injuries and Special
Populations
General Information
Assessment and management of traumatic injuries and special populations.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
AND EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
AND EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
AND EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 214@@@
---LEFT---
EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
General Information
The first of three courses, reviews EMT level skills and introduces the advanced
paramedic skills. Students learn safe and effective skills performance and begin to
integrate assessment, management and skills performance into simulated patient
scenarios.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS215 - Human Body Systems
• EMS216 - Introduction to Emergency Medical Care
• EMS217 - Prehospital Emergency Pharmacology
All course must be completed with a minimum grade of C.
EMS226 - Paramedic Skills Lab II
General Information
The second course in the series continues the development of advanced level skills
proficiency. Students integrate knowledge of specific patient complaints with
assessment and management skills.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
AND EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
AND EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
AND EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
EMS227 - Paramedic Skills Lab III
General Information
The third course in the series of advanced level skills development. Students
demonstrate proficiency and prepare for the paramedic credentialing exam.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS219 - Advanced Electrocardiography
AND EMS220 - Management of Traumatic Injuries and
Special Populations
AND EMS231 - Medical Emergencies II
AND EMS251 - Paramedic Clinical II
AND EMS226 - Paramedic Skills Lab II
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
General Information
The first in a series of three courses addressing the epidemiology and
pathophysiology of various respiratory and cardiac medical complaints. Students
will learn to integrate assessment findings with the formulation of a treatment plan
for the acute illness.
Components Credits
Lecture 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS216 - Introduction to Emergency Medical Care
AND EMS217 - Prehospital Emergency Pharmacology
AND EMS215 - Human Body Systems

@@@PAGE 215@@@
---LEFT---
EMS231 - Medical Emergencies II
General Information
A continuation of the series of three courses addressing epidemiology, and
pathophysiology of various medical and trauma complaints. Students will learn to
integrate patient assessment and diagnostic findings with the formulation of a
treatment plan for acute illness and injury.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS218 - Basic Electrocardiography
AND EMS230 - Medical Emergencies I
AND EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
AND EMS225 - Paramedic Skills Lab I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
EMS232 - Medical Emergencies III
General Information
The conclusion of the sequence in medical emergencies where the epidemiology,
pathophysiology, diagnostic and assessment findings are integrated to form a
treatment plan for acute illness or injury in the emergency setting. This course will
also include considerations for special patient populations as well as EMS
operations.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS219 - Advanced Electrocardiography
AND EMS220 - Management of Traumatic Injuries and
Special Populations
AND EMS231 - Medical Emergencies II
AND EMS251 - Paramedic Clinical II
AND EMS226 - Paramedic Skills Lab II
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 216@@@
---LEFT---
EMS240 - Paramedic Crisis Resource Management
General Information
This course addresses the human factors contributing to EMS scene management.
Focusing on human error, perception modalities, emotion, cognitive attention,
working in a healthcare environment challenges, crisis communication, on-scene
management, and coping with stress.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EMS219 - Advanced Electrocardiography
AND EMS220 - Management of Traumatic Injuries and
Special Populations
AND EMS231 - Medical Emergencies II
AND EMS251 - Paramedic Clinical II
AND EMS226 - Paramedic Skills Lab II
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
EMS250 - Paramedic Clinical I
General Information
First-quarter clinical and infield experience for paramedic students. Includes
clinical experience in hospital and infield experience.
Components Credits
Clinical, Field Study 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Paramedic Certificate Program
Engineering Department
Website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/sem/engineering/index
Chair: Ivan Ramirez - iramirez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
EMS251 - Paramedic Clinical II
General Information
Second-quarter clinical and field experience for Paramedic students. Students will
have assigned clinical and infield rotations.
Components Credits
Clinical, Field Study 7
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Prerequisite: EMC 120 AND EMC 130
EMS252 - Paramedic Clinical III
General Information
Continuation of EMC 251. Emphasis is on clinical and extensive in-field experience.
Third quarter clinical and in-field experience for paramedic students includes
specified hospital assignments and extensive in-field experience.
Components Credits
Clinical, Field Study 9
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Emergency Medical Services
Prerequisite: EMC 121 AND EMC 131

@@@PAGE 217@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 218@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering
AS-T Track 2/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering AS-T Track 2/MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering is a state-recognized
Associate of Science – Track 2, Major Related Program (AS-T2 MRP). It is designed
to provide a clear transfer pathway for students pursuing a Bachelor of Science
program in Bioengineering, Chemical Engineering, or Biomass Resource Science
and Engineering. Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior
standing to most Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students
transferring out of state should work closely with the transfer institutions to
understand how courses in this degree will transfer.
However, admission to specific engineering programs is competitive and not
guaranteed. Transfer institutions may require a minimum cumulative GPA, a higher
GPA in a selected subset of courses, or a minimum grade in subjects like Math or
English. Students are strongly encouraged to meet early with both their TCC
advisor and their intended transfer institution to confirm that course selections
align with both graduation requirements at TCC and admission criteria at the
transfer school. Because courses in this pathway may fulfill different requirements
depending on the major, students should carefully verify how each course fits into
their intended program of study.
Many of the required courses for this degree have prerequisites, which may
increase the total number of credits needed for completion. Students who are not
yet prepared for Calculus I (MATH&151 Calculus I ) or English Composition I
(ENGL&101 English Composition I ), or who have not completed high school
chemistry, should expect to take additional coursework.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
98-100 CHEBCAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (10 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ART105 Beginning Drawing - Beginning Drawing
ENGR&114 Engineering Graphics - Engineering Graphics
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENGR&104 Introduction to Engineering and Design - Introduction to
Engineering and Design
ECON&202 Macro Economics - Macro Economics
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended: Multicultural Course
Core Requirement ( 38 credits)
Type

@@@PAGE 219@@@
---LEFT---
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses (20 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
Physics Courses (18 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Specialization Requirement (20-22 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Biology or Chemistry Course (5 Credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
Specialization Electives (15-17 Credits)
Complete at least 3 of the following courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
• CHEM&262 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab II
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
• ENGR&104 - Introduction to Engineering and Design
• ENGR170 - Introduction to Materials Science
OR ENGR270 - Fundamentals of Materials Science and
Engineering with Lab
• ENGR&214 - Statics
• ENGR&224 - Engineering Thermodynamics
• ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Additional Comments:
Students should check with their advisor and/or transfer institution when
selecting specialization courses as each program may different requirements.
Important Note: Beginning Spring 2026, the order of the biology courses
listed as an options above will change to: BIOL& 222 → BIOL& 221.
Additionally, BIOL& 160 will no longer be required as a prerequisite for
these courses . Students beginning this degree in Fall 2025 or later who plan
to take BIOL&222 should not enroll in BIOL& 160 unless specifically advised
to do so. Click here to connect with an advisor for this degree: Science,
Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway Advising.
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
---RIGHT---
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering AS-T Track 2/MRP
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 220@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Civil and Mechanical Engineering AS-T Track
2/ MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Civil and Mechanical Engineering AS-T Track 2/ MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate in Civil and Mechanical Engineering is a state-recognized Associate
of Science – Track 2, Major Related Program (AS-T2 MRP). It is designed to provide
a clear transfer pathway for students pursuing a Bachelor of Science degree in Civil
or Mechanical Engineering. Students interested in related fields such as
Environmental, Aeronautical, or Industrial Engineering are also encouraged to
follow this pathway. Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer
with junior standing to most Washington State baccalaureate institutions.
However, admission to specific engineering programs is competitive and not
guaranteed. Transfer institutions may require a minimum cumulative GPA, a higher
GPA in a selected subset of courses, or a minimum grade in subjects like Math or
English. Students are strongly encouraged to meet early with both their TCC
advisor and their intended transfer institution to confirm that course selections
align with both graduation requirements at TCC and admission criteria at the
transfer school. Because courses in this pathway may fulfill different requirements
depending on the major, students should carefully verify how each course fits into
their intended program of study.
Many of the required courses for this degree have prerequisites, which may
increase the total number of credits needed for completion. Students who are not
yet prepared for Calculus I (MATH&151 Calculus I ) or English Composition I
(ENGL&101 English Composition I ), or who have not completed high school
chemistry, should expect to take additional coursework.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
108-110 MEEMCASS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
---RIGHT---
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative Skills (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 Credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGR&114 Engineering Graphics - Engineering Graphics
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGR&104 Introduction to Engineering and Design - Introduction to
Engineering and Design
ECON&202 Macro Economics - Macro Economics
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended: Multicultural Course
Core Requirement ( 43 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 221@@@
---LEFT---
Chemistry Courses (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Engineering Courses (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGR&214 - Statics
• ENGR&215 - Dynamics
• ENGR&225 - Mechanics of Materials
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Specialization Requirement (20-22 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Specialization Electives (20-21 credits)
Complete at least 4 of the following courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
• ENGR&104 - Introduction to Engineering and Design
• ENGR&114 - Engineering Graphics
• ENGR&204 - Electrical Circuits
• ENGR&224 - Engineering Thermodynamics
• ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
• ENGR170 - Introduction to Materials Science
OR ENGR270 - Fundamentals of Materials Science and
Engineering with Lab
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the Multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Civil and Mechanical Engineering AS-T Track 2/ MRP
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
---RIGHT---
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 222@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Computer and Electrical Engineering AS-T
Track 2/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Computer and Electrical Engineering AS-T Track 2/MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering is a state-recognized
Associate of Science – Track 2, Major Related Program (AS-T2 MRP). It is designed
to provide a clear transfer pathway for students pursuing a Bachelor of Science
degree program in Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering. This degree is
generally the best fit for Electrical Engineering majors. Computer Engineering
majors may find that the Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Computer
Engineering Specialization better fits their bachelor’s program requirements.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. However, admission to specific
engineering programs is competitive and not guaranteed. Transfer institutions may
require a minimum cumulative GPA, a higher GPA in a selected subset of courses,
or a minimum grade in subjects like Math or English. Students are strongly
encouraged to meet early with both their TCC advisor and their intended transfer
institution to confirm that course selections align with both graduation
requirements at TCC and admission criteria at the transfer school. Because
courses in this pathway may fulfill different requirements depending on the major,
students should carefully verify how each course fits into their intended program
of study.
Many of the required courses for this degree have prerequisites, which may
increase the total number of credits needed for completion. Students who are not
yet prepared for Calculus I (MATH&151 Calculus I ) or English Composition I
(ENGL&101 English Composition I ), or who have not completed high school
chemistry, should expect to take additional coursework.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
104 EECCEAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative Skills (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGR&114 Engineering Graphics - Engineering Graphics
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENGR&104 Introduction to Engineering and Design - Introduction to
Engineering and Design
ECON&202 Macro Economics - Macro Economics
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended: Multicultural Course

@@@PAGE 223@@@
---LEFT---
Core Requirement (34 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
Computer Science Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
Engineering Course (6 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGR&204 - Electrical Circuits
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Specialization Requirement (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Specialization Electives (25 credits)
Complete at least 5 of the following courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• CS143 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists II
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
• ENGR&104 - Introduction to Engineering and Design
• ENGR&214 - Statics
• ENGR&215 - Dynamics
• ENGR&224 - Engineering Thermodynamics
• ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Computer and Electrical Engineering AS-T Track 2/MRP
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
---RIGHT---
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 224@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Materials Science and Manufacturing
Engineering AS-T Track 2/ MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Materials Science and Manufacturing Engineering AS-T Track 2/ MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate in Materials Science and Manufacturing Engineering is a
state-recognized Associate of Science – Track 2, Major Related Program (AS-T2
MRP). It is designed to provide a clear transfer pathway for students pursuing a
Bachelor of Science degree in Materials Science Engineering or Manufacturing
Engineering. Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior
standing to most Washington State baccalaureate institutions. However, admission
to specific engineering programs is competitive and not guaranteed. Transfer
institutions may require a minimum cumulative GPA, a higher GPA in a selected
subset of courses, or a minimum grade in subjects like Math or English. Students
are strongly encouraged to meet early with both their TCC advisor and their
intended transfer institution to confirm that course selections align with both
graduation requirements at TCC and admission criteria at the transfer school.
Because courses in this pathway may fulfill different requirements depending on
the major, students should carefully verify how each course fits into their intended
program of study.
Many of the required courses for this degree have prerequisites, which may
increase the total number of credits needed for completion. Students who are not
yet prepared for Calculus I (MATH&151 Calculus I ) or English Composition I
(ENGL&101 English Composition I ), or who have not completed high school
chemistry, should expect to take additional coursework.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
103 MEEMSAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
---RIGHT---
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative Skills (20 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 Credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGR&114 Engineering Graphics - Engineering Graphics
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENGR&104 Introduction to Engineering and Design - Introduction to
Engineering and Design
ECON&202 Macro Economics - Macro Economics
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended: Multicultural Course
Core Requirement (43 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 225@@@
---LEFT---
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
Engineering Courses (15-16 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGR170 - Introduction to Materials Science
OR ENGR270 - Fundamentals of Materials Science and
Engineering with Lab
• ENGR&214 - Statics
• ENGR&225 - Mechanics of Materials
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Specialization Requirement (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Specialization Electives
Complete at least 5 of the following courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
• CHEM&261 - Organic Chemistry w/Lab I
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
• ENGR&104 - Introduction to Engineering and Design
• ENGR&114 - Engineering Graphics
• ENGR&215 - Dynamics
• ENGR&224 - Engineering Thermodynamics
• ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Complete ALL of the following Course Sets:
• Multicultural Courses
Program Map
Associate in Materials Science and Manufacturing Engineering AS-T Track 2/ MRP
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
---RIGHT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Computer
Engineering Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Computer Engineering Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Computer Engineering Specialization is
designed to prepare students for transfer into a Bachelor of Science program in
Computer Engineering. Students interested in Electrical Engineering may find that
the Associate in Computer and Electrical Engineering AS-T Track 2/MRP aligns
more closely with their intended transfer requirements.
Graduates of this program will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Admission to specific engineering
programs is competitive and not guaranteed. Transfer institutions may require a
minimum cumulative GPA, a higher GPA in a selected subset of courses, or a
minimum grade in subjects like Math or English. Additional general education
coursework may be required after transfer, as the first two years of engineering
bachelor programs are primarily focused on completing the foundational math and
science courses essential for engineering majors.
Students are strongly encouraged to meet early with both their TCC advisor and
their intended transfer institution to confirm that course selections align with both
graduation requirements at TCC and admission criteria at the transfer school.
Many of the required courses for this degree have prerequisites, which may
increase the total number of credits needed for completion. Students who are not
yet prepared for Calculus I (MATH&151 Calculus I) or English Composition I
(ENGL&101 English Composition I ), or who have not completed high school
chemistry, should expect to take additional coursework.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits PHST2AS Code Fall 2025
90 COMPUTER E
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)

@@@PAGE 226@@@
---LEFT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative Skills (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 Credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (39 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Computer Science Courses (10 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
• CS143 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists II
---RIGHT---
Engineering Course (6 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGR&204 - Electrical Circuits
Physics Courses (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Chemistry Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
Electives (1 credit)
Type
Completion Requirement
Elective Course
Complete 1 credit of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on major and
transfer institution. See your advisor for suggestions
Recommended Courses:
ENGL&235 Technical Writing - Technical Writing
ENGR&224 Engineering Thermodynamics - Engineering Thermodynamics
ENGR&240 Engineering Computations - Engineering Computations
CHEM&162 General Chemistry w/Lab II - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least undefined credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Computer Engineering Specialization
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 227@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ENGR&104 - Introduction to Engineering and Design
General Information
Introduction to the engineering profession and its design process by building group
skills, understanding the effects of different learning styles, producing strategies
for innovation, and fostering creativity in problem solving. Includes design projects,
journal keeping, professionalism and ethical issues, and oral presentations.
Acquaints students with disciplines and opportunities in engineering.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required
Math at the 100 level with minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently).
ENGR&114 - Engineering Graphics
General Information
An introduction to Computer Aided Design (CAD) using software based on
parametric solid modeling. Students will use the software to create virtual models,
show the models in various projections and views, manage the associated
computer files, and produce engineering drawings. The course includes the
engineering graphics topics of three-dimensional visualization, sketching,
displaying solid objects in two-dimensional views, dimensioning, and reading
engineering drawings.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required
Math at the 100 level with a minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently)
---RIGHT---
ENGR&204 - Electrical Circuits
General Information
An introduction to electrical engineering through basic circuit and system
concepts. Topics include: resistors, sources, capacitors, inductors, operational
amplifiers, node and mesh analysis, Thevenin and Norton equivalents, RLC circuits,
phasors and steady state power in AC transmission. Solution of first and second
order linear differential equations associated with basic circuit forms will be used.
Laboratory activities illustrate principles explored in lecture.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
or concurrent enrollment in MATH 238
Physics
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
ENGR&214 - Statics
General Information
Scalar and vector analysis of two, and three-dimensional static structures. Topics
include: vector notation, equilibrium, moments, couples, distributed loads,
resultants, trusses, frames and machines, center of mass, inertia, shear and bending
moment diagrams, and friction. Includes a team project.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physics
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics

@@@PAGE 228@@@
---LEFT---
ENGR&215 - Dynamics
General Information
Dynamics of particles and rigid bodies, using the vector notation. Topics covered in
this course include: kinematics, kinetics, rectangular coordinates, normal and
tangent coordinates, polar coordinates, curvilinear motion, work, energy, impulse,
momentum, impact, steady mass flow, rotation, absolute motion and relative
motion. Includes design project.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Engineering
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGR&214 - Statics
ENGR&224 - Engineering Thermodynamics
General Information
Introduction to principles of thermodynamics from a predominantly macroscopic
point of view. Development of the basic laws of thermodynamics and their
application to energy transformation and state changes in engineering problems.
Topics include work, heat, energy, entropy, specific heat, open and closed system
analysis, and applications to devices and systems. Simple power and refrigeration
cycles, including Carnot, Otto, Diesel, Brayton and Rankine are introduced.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physics
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
---RIGHT---
ENGR&225 - Mechanics of Materials
General Information
An introduction to the concepts of stress, strain, deformation, and failure theory in
solid materials. Applies mechanics of materials concepts to structural and machine
elements in tension, compression, bending, and torsion. Topics include deformation
of members, Poisson's ratio, stress concentrations, thermal stress, statically
indeterminate techniques, flexure formula, shear formula, stress transformation,
Mohr's circle, strain gauges, deflections, and columns. Includes a design project.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&153 - Calculus III

@@@PAGE 229@@@
---LEFT---
ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
General Information
Numerical solutions to problems in engineering and science using modern
scientific computing tools. Application of mathematical judgment in selecting
computational algorithms and communicating results. Introduction to MATLAB
programming for numerical computation.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math/Computer User
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CS120 - Computer Science Principles
or previous programming experience.
Additional Comments:
Prior programming experience also sufficient
---RIGHT---
ENGR170 - Introduction to Materials Science
General Information
Fundamental principles of structures and properties of materials used in
engineering practice. Topics covered in this course include structures-properties
relationship, imperfections of materials, diffusion, phase equilibrium and
transformation, and application and processing of materials in engineering
practice. Metal, ceramics, polymeric, and composite materials. Mechanical,
chemical, and electrical properties of materials.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in CHEM& 162
ENGR270 - Fundamentals of Materials Science and
Engineering with Lab
General Information
Fundamental principles of structures and properties of materials used in
engineering practice with laboratory analysis. Topics covered in this course include
structures-properties relationship, imperfections of materials, diffusion, phase
equilibrium and transformation, and application and processing of materials in
engineering practice. Metal, ceramics, polymeric, and composite materials.
Mechanical, chemical, and electrical properties of materials.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Chemistry & Math Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• MATH&141 - Precalculus I
CHEM&162 General Chemistry w/Lab II may be taken concurrently.
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in CHEM& 162

@@@PAGE 230@@@
---LEFT---
ENGR299 - Independent Study
General Information
Independent design, observation, analysis, and reporting of an engineering project
or topic.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: instructor permission.
English Language Acquisition Department
For more information on our English language Acquisition Department: English as a
Department email: basicskills@tacomacc.edu
English Language Acquisition Department Chair: Susan Lawler - slawler@tacomacc.edu
Courses
ELA5 - ELA - Educational Interview
General Information
The purpose of this class is to orient new students to the ABE/ELA programs and
resources at the college. In this class, the student will develop educational and
personal goals, develop self-awareness and identify strategies and resources that
will assist in achieving professional, and academic goals.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: CASAS score under 235 or placement into basic skills
program.
---RIGHT---
Second Language (ESL) : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)
ELA10 - Integrated ELA - Level 1A
General Information
Integrated ELA - Level 1A is a part of the two-quarter level 1 curriculum designed
for students who have no background in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar and technology to meet their basic needs.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: (AESL 072 AND Permission Code) or (CASAS Reading score
of 180 or below AND CASAS Listening score of 180 or below AND
Writing Sample at Level 1 or higher AND Permission Code)

@@@PAGE 231@@@
---LEFT---
ELA11 - Integrated ELA - Level 1B
General Information
Integrated ELA - Level 1B is part of a 2-quarter curriculum designed for students
with little or no knowledge of the English language. Students will acquire
knowledge and demonstrate skills in listening, speaking, reading, writing, grammar
and technology to meet their basic needs.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: (AESL 071 AND Permission Code) or (CASAS Reading score
of 180 or below AND CASAS Listening score of 180 or below AND
Writing Sample at Level 1 or higher AND Permission Code)
ELA20 - Integrated ELA - Level 2A
General Information
Integrated ELA- Level 2A is part of a 2-quarter curriculum designed for students at
the low-beginning level in the English language. Students will acquire knowledge
and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing, grammar and
technology skills. to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: (AESL 071 with a minimum grade of C AND AESL 072 with a
minimum grade of C AND Permission Code) or (CASAS Reading score of
181 to 190 AND CASAS Listening Score of 181-189 AND Writing Sample
at Level 2 or higher AND Permission Code)
---RIGHT---
ELA21 - Integrated ELA - Level 2B
General Information
Integrated ELA- Level 2B is a 2-quarter curriculum designed for students at the
low-beginning level in the English language. Students will acquire knowledge and
demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing, grammar and technology
skills to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 011 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 010 with a minimum grade of
C or ELA 020
ELA30 - Integrated ELA - Level 3A
General Information
Integrated ELA - Level 3A is a part of the two-quarter level 3 curriculum designed
for students at the high-beginning level in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar, critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 020 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 021 with a minimum grade of
C or ELA 021 with a minimum grade of C

@@@PAGE 232@@@
---LEFT---
ELA31 - Integrated ELA - Level 3B
General Information
Integrated ELA - Level 3B is a part of the two-quarter level 3 curriculum designed
for students at the high-beginning level in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar, critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 020 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 021 with a minimum grade of
C
ELA40 - Integrated ELA - Level 4A
General Information
Integrated ELA Level - 4A is a part of the two-quarter level 4 curriculum designed
for students at the low-intermediate level in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar, critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 030 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 031 with a minimum grade of
C
---RIGHT---
ELA41 - Integrated ELA - Level 4B
General Information
Integrated ELA Level - 4B is a part of the two-quarter level 4 curriculum designed
for students at the low-intermediate level in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar, critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
AESL
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
completion or ELA 030 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 031 with a
minimum grade of C or ELA 040
ELA50 - Integrated ELA - Level 5A
General Information
Integrated ELA Level - 5A is a part of the two-quarter level 5 curriculum designed
for students at the high-intermediate level in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar, critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 040 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 041 with a minimum grade of
C

@@@PAGE 233@@@
---LEFT---
ELA51 - Integrated ELA - Level 5B
General Information
Integrated ELA Level - 5B is a part of the two-quarter level 5 curriculum designed
for students at the high-intermediate level in the English language. Students will
acquire knowledge and demonstrate skills in speaking, listening, reading, writing,
grammar, critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 041 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 050
ELA60 - Integrated ELA - Level 6A
General Information
Integrated ELA Level 6A is a part of the two-quarter level 6 curriculum designed
for students at the advanced level in the English language. Students will acquire
knowledge and demonstrate skills in listening, speaking, reading, writing, grammar,
critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 050 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 051 with a minimum grade of
C
---RIGHT---
ELA61 - Integrated ELA - Level 6B
General Information
Integrated ELA Level 6B is a part of the two-quarter level 6 curriculum designed
for students at the advanced level in the English language. Students will acquire
knowledge and demonstrate skills in listening, speaking, reading, writing, grammar,
critical thinking, and technology to become college and career ready.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement into English Language Acquisition Program or
ELA 050 with a minimum grade of C or ELA 051 with a minimum grade of
C or ELA 060
ELA71 - ELA Speaking and Listening Level 1
General Information
Students will learn to use and understand basic words and phrases related to
personal information and basic communication needs. Students will learn to
answer and ask very basic questions, use basic non verbal cues and ask for
clarification when needed.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program.

@@@PAGE 234@@@
---LEFT---
ELA72 - ELA Speaking and Listening Level 2
General Information
Students will learn to use and understand short sentences related to personal
information. Instruction will focus on basic comprehension and pronunciation and
students will learn to use and understand simple strategies to relay information
such as gestures, eye contact and requesting feedback.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program or ELA
071 with a minimum grade of C
ELA73 - ELA Speaking and Listening Level 3
General Information
Student will begin to use and understand basic grammar and sentence structure in
communication related to everyday topics and personal experiences. Students will
continue to work on pronunciation and will begin to participate in short
conversations, give instructions, and gather missing information.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program or with
a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
ELA74 - ELA Speaking and Listening Level 4
General Information
Students will learn to communicate with little support in familiar and unfamiliar
settings. Instruction will focus on improving pronunciation, managing more
complex conversations, explanations, instructions, and narratives.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program or ELA
073 with a minimum grade of C
ELA75 - ELA Speaking and Listening Level 5
General Information
Students will learn to communicate fluently and accurately in familiar and
unfamiliar settings. Instruction will focus on fine tuning pronunciation, building
more complex vocabulary, improving comprehension, and using more complex
communication strategies.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program or ELA
074 with a minimum grade of C

@@@PAGE 235@@@
---LEFT---
ELA76 - ELA Speaking and Listening Level 6
General Information
Students will learn to use a broad range of vocabulary and registers as well as
understand most details in conversations, short lectures, news reports and
extended explanations. Instruction will focus on building complex conversation
skills as well as developing strategies for repairing gaps in communication.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program or ELA
075 with a minimum grade of C
ELA80 - Introduction to Practical Computing ELA
General Information
To provide English language learners with an opportunity to cultivate the computer
usage skills necessary to transition to college level courses as confident, successful
students. This course is an introduction to computer usage skills using the most
current Microsoft Windows operating system. Topics include: developing
computer literacy, navigation, organization, printing, file location and management,
accessing help.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Language Acquisition
Prerequisite: Placement in English Language Acquisition Program.
English for Academic Purposes Department
For more information on our English for Academic Purposes Department: English for
English for Academic Purposes Department Chair: Emilie Coates-White - ECoates-white@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
Academic Purposes : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 236@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
EAP13 - Integrated EAP-Beginning
General Information
Beginning-level contextualized reading, writing, grammar, listening, and speaking
class for English language learners. Students learn basic reading, spelling, and
sentence structure, and are introduced to the writing process.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Prerequisite: Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND
writing sample.
EAP15 - Integrated EAP-Intermediate
General Information
Intermediate-level contextualized reading, writing, grammar, listening, and
speaking class for English language learners. Students are introduced to the
writing process as they progress from sentences to one-paragraph compositions.
Reading assignments provide support for the writing projects while improving
students' reading comprehension, speed and vocabulary.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP14 - Integrated EAP- High Beginning (Inactive)
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
---RIGHT---
EAP16 - Integrated EAP- High Intermediate
General Information
High intermediate-level contextualized reading, writing, grammar, listening, and
speaking class for English language learners. Students practice the writing process
of short narrative, descriptive, and summary compositions. Grammar and
mechanics are practiced in the context of writing assignments. Reading lessons
support writing activities and build reading comprehension, retention, and
vocabulary.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP15 - Integrated EAP-Intermediate
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
EAP87 - Level 3 Reading/Writing/Grammar
General Information
EAP 087 synthesizes skills taught in EAP 97 and EAP 93 in the context of a variety
of introductory-level transfer or professional/technical courses, introducing
students to the reading and writing skills necessary for college success.
Coursework focuses on the writing process of short narrative and descriptive
compositions. Grammar and mechanics are practiced in the context of writing
assignments. Reading lessons support writing activities and build reading
comprehension, retention, and vocabulary.
Components Credits
Lecture 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP96 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills I
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement is also sufficient

@@@PAGE 237@@@
---LEFT---
EAP88 - Introduction to Pronunciation and Conversation
General Information
An introductory-level course in conversation and pronunciation for entry-level
non-native speakers of English. Students are introduced to the pronunciation of
basic English sounds and intonation patterns, contextualized and practiced in
short-simple conversations.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND
writing sample.
EAP89 - Pronunciation and Conversation I
General Information
A beginning-level course in conversation and pronunciation for non-native
speakers of English. Students are introduced to the pronunciation of specific
English sounds and basic intonation patterns, contextualized and practiced in
conversation.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP88 - Introduction to Pronunciation and Conversation
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
---RIGHT---
EAP90 - Pronunciation and Conversation II
General Information
A course in pronunciation and conversation for non-native speakers of English at
the advanced-beginning or low-intermediate level. While developing
conversational fluency, students improve their pronunciation of both the specific
sounds and the intonation patterns of English. Some practice in note-taking is also
included.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP89 - Pronunciation and Conversation I
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient

@@@PAGE 238@@@
---LEFT---
EAP91 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation I
General Information
The first in a series of listening, speaking, and pronunciation courses for English
language learners. Students are introduced to the pronunciation of basic English
sounds and intonation patterns in realistic contexts.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Required Placement
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing
sample.
Concurrent Enrollment Requirement
Type
Corequisite
Intensive English
Enroll in the following Courses:
• EAP96 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills I
Students must enroll in both EAP 91 and EAP 96 in the same term.
---RIGHT---
EAP92 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation II
General Information
The second in a series of listening, speaking, and pronunciation courses for English
language learners. Students learn the pronunciation of specific English sounds and
basic intonation patterns in realistic contexts.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP88 - Introduction to Pronunciation and Conversation
OR EAP91 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation I
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
EAP93 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation III
General Information
The third in a series of listening, speaking, and pronunciation courses for English
language learners. While developing conversational fluency, students improve
their pronunciation of both the specific sounds and the intonation patterns of
English.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP89 - Pronunciation and Conversation I
OR EAP92 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation II
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient. All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 239@@@
---LEFT---
EAP94 - Grammar and Speaking IV
General Information
The fourth in a series of five grammar and speaking classes for non-native speakers
of English at the high intermediate level. The class focuses on grammar plus
classroom discussion and reports.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP93 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and Conversation III
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
EAP96 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills I
General Information
An intensive, multi-level reading, writing, and grammar course to prepare English
language learners for the EAP Academic Bridge courses. At this level, students may
stay in this course for up to three quarters or progress more quickly if outcomes
are mastered. Reading assignments improve students' comprehension and
vocabulary. Students practice the writing process as they progress from sentences
to one-paragraph compositions. Grammar and mechanics are practiced in the
context of writing assignments.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirement
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• EAP13 - Integrated EAP-Beginning
or completion of the EAP Directed Self-Placement tool and writing sample.
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
---RIGHT---
EAP97 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills II
General Information
An intensive, multi-level reading, writing, and grammar course to prepare English
language learners for the EAP Academic Bridge courses. At this level, students may
stay in this course for up to two quarters or progress more quickly if outcomes are
mastered. Reading assignments improve students' comprehension and vocabulary.
Students practice the writing process as they progress from sentences to
one-paragraph compositions. Grammar and mechanics are practiced in the context
of writing assignments.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP14 - Integrated EAP- High Beginning (Inactive)
OR EAP96 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills I
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient

@@@PAGE 240@@@
---LEFT---
EAP98 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills III
General Information
An intensive, multi-level reading, writing, and grammar course to prepare English
language learners for the EAP Academic Bridge courses. Reading assignments
improve students' comprehension and vocabulary. Students practice the writing
process as they progress from sentences to one-paragraph compositions. Grammar
and mechanics are practiced in the context of writing assignments.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP15 - Integrated EAP-Intermediate
OR EAP97 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills II
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient. All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
EAP99 - Academic Bridge: Composition and Reading I
General Information
A high-intermediate course designed to improve students reading and writing
ability for entrance into EAP 100. Course work introduces academic reading and
research skills. Students gain proficiency in writing varied types of essays
necessary for college success. Students learn advanced grammar to apply to
reading and writing.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP16 - Integrated EAP- High Intermediate
OR EAP98 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills III
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient. All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
EAP100 - Academic Bridge: Composition and Reading II
General Information
An advanced course designed to improve students' writing ability for entrance into
ENGL&101. Course work focuses on academic reading and research skills.
Students gain proficiency in writing varied types of essays necessary for college
success. Students learn advanced grammar to apply to reading and writing.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 10 15
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Prerequisite: EAP 099 with a minimum grade of C or Completion of the
EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample.
EAP101 - Special Programs Reading/Writing II
General Information
An advanced reading and writing course for non-native English speaking students
in special short-term Study Abroad programs. Designed to prepare advanced
students for humanities or social sciences classes with native speakers. Focuses on
multiple-page essays, stressing revising and polishing skills. Reading provides
background for the writing component, with emphasis on comprehension, speed,
retention, and vocabulary.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• EAP100 - Academic Bridge: Composition and Reading II
Additional Comments:
Membership in an approved study abroad program also required

@@@PAGE 241@@@
---LEFT---
EAP110 - Special Programs: Reading and Writing I
General Information
A special high-intermediate reading and writing course for students in special
short-term Study Abroad programs. Students practice the writing process of short
narrative, descriptive, and summary compositions. Grammar and mechanics are
practiced in the context of writing assignments. Reading lessons support writing
activities and build reading comprehension, retention, and vocabulary.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Membership in an approved Study Abroad program.
EAP111 - Special Programs: Reading and Writing II
General Information
An advanced reading and writing course for students in special short-term Study
Abroad programs. Designed to prepare students for humanities or social sciences
classes with native speakers. Focuses on multiple-page essays, stressing revising
and polishing skills. Reading provides background for the writing component, with
emphasis on comprehension, speed, retention, and vocabulary.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Membership in an approved Study Abroad program.
---RIGHT---
EAP154 - Advanced Composition and Reading
General Information
EAP-154 synthesizes skills taught in EAP-155 and EAP-159 in the context of a
variety of transfer or professional technical courses, helping students build the
reading and writing skills necessary for success in these courses. Course work
focuses on increasing reading speed, comprehension, and retention; and gaining
mastery of the essay writing process and editing/polishing skills.
Components Credits
Lecture 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
EAP154
EAP 099 with a minimum grade of C or Completion of the EAP Directed
Self Placement tool and writing sample.
EAP155 - Grammar and Speaking V
General Information
The last in a series of five grammar and speaking courses for non-native speakers
of English at the advanced level. The course focuses on areas of English grammar
that present difficulties to advanced students of the language; aural
comprehension, speaking skills, and vocabulary development are also included.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP94 - Grammar and Speaking IV
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement is also sufficient

@@@PAGE 242@@@
---LEFT---
EAP159 - Reading and Writing V
General Information
The last in a series of five reading and writing courses for non-native English
speakers, designed to prepare advanced students for composition classes with
native speakers. Focuses on multiple-paragraph essays, stressing revising and
polishing skills. Readings provide background for the writing component, with
emphasis on comprehension, speed, retention, and vocabulary.
Components Credits
Lecture 7
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP98 - Intensive English: Integrated Skills III
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement is also sufficient
EAP160 - Advanced Writing
General Information
An advanced writing course for non-native speakers of English. The course focuses
on assessment and improvement of sentence structure and writing style, allowing
students to edit their own writing in order to improve accuracy, variety, and
sophistication of sentences and paragraphs.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP155 - Grammar and Speaking V
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement is also sufficient
---RIGHT---
EAP162 - Advanced Reading
General Information
An advanced course in reading for non-native speakers of English. The course
focuses on reading skills including finding main ideas and details, looking at
patterns of organization and transitions, and developing vocabulary.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP159 - Reading and Writing V
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement is also sufficient
EAP190 - American Culture and Conversation--High
Intermed.
General Information
A course in conversational English focused on contemporary American culture for
non-native speakers of English at the high-intermediate level. Students explore
current issues in American life through readings, videos, and conversation.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• EAP90 - Pronunciation and Conversation II
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient

@@@PAGE 243@@@
---LEFT---
EAP191 - Academic Bridge: Pronunciation and
Conversation I
General Information
An advanced-level course in speaking and pronunciation for English language
learners. Students practice individual phonemes of English, stress patterns, and
sentence-level intonation for clear communication.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP90 - Pronunciation and Conversation II
OR EAP93 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation III
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
EAP192 - Academic Bridge: American Culture and
Conversation I
General Information
An advanced-level course in conversational English focused on contemporary
American culture for English language learners. Students explore current issues in
American life.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP90 - Pronunciation and Conversation II
OR EAP93 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation III
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
EAP193 - Academic Bridge: Pronunciation and
Conversation II
General Information
An advanced-level course in speaking and pronunciation for English language
learners. Students practice individual phonemes of English, stress patterns, and
sentence-level intonation for clear communication.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP90 - Pronunciation and Conversation II
OR EAP93 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation III
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient
EAP194 - Academic Bridge: American Culture and
Conversation II
General Information
A course in conversational English focused on contemporary American culture for
nonnative speakers of English at the advanced level. Students explore current
issues in American life through readings, videos, conversation, and interviews.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English for Academic Purposes
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• EAP90 - Pronunciation and Conversation II
OR EAP93 - Intensive English: Pronunciation and
Conversation III
Additional Comments:
Completion of the EAP Directed Self Placement tool AND writing sample is
also sufficient

@@@PAGE 244@@@
---LEFT---
Environmental Science Department
For more information on our Environmental Science department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/environmentalscience
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 245@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 246@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Environmental
Sciences Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Environmental Sciences Specialization
Catalog Description
The Environmental Sciences Specialization of the Associate in Science Track 1
degree provides a well-rounded foundation to support students who wish to major
in environmental sciences.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LRST1AS Code Fall 2025
90 ENV SCIENC
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
---RIGHT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
OR BUS256 - Statistical Analysis
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course: CMST&220 Public Speaking - Public Speaking
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course: POLS240 Environmental Politics and
Sustainability - Environmental Politics and Sustainability
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course: SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction
to Sociology (Multicultural Course)
Biology Requirement (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Biology Courses (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity

@@@PAGE 247@@@
---LEFT---
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
• BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
Important Note: Beginning Spring 2026, this Biology course sequence is
undergoing a redesign. The order of the sequence will change to: BIOL&
222 → BIOL& 221 → BIOL& 223. Additionally, BIOL& 160 will no longer
be required as a prerequisite for this sequence . Students beginning this
degree in Fall 2025 or later should not enroll in BIOL& 160 unless
specifically advised to do so. Click here to connect with an advisor for this
degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway Advising.
Chemistry Requirement (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
Geology Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Geology Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• GEOL&101 - Introduction to Physical Geology
Physics Requirement (6 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Physics Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&114 - General Physics I
Electives (14 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Elective Courses
Complete 14 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90
credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer
institution and may include prerequisites for major courses
(e.g., pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific
general education.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses
that are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution
Course List.
Recommended Courses:
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science
GEOL179 Special Topics in Geology - Special Topics in Geology
ENVS210 Maps, GIS and the Environment / GEOG210 Maps, GIS and the
---RIGHT---
Environment - Maps, GIS and the Environment
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the Multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Environmental Sciences Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 248@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science
General Information
An interdisciplinary science course for both non-science majors and beginning
science students. Topics such as overpopulation, energy, biodiversity, climate
change, and pollution are covered. Underlying scientific principles are identified
and related to relevant global, national and local perspectives. Laboratories and
field trips included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
ENVS105 - Climate Change
General Information
An interdisciplinary science course for both non-science majors and interested
science students. Topics include carbon cycling, ocean acidification, paleoclimate,
future climate predictions, and climate adaptation and mitigation strategies.
Scientific aspects of the climate system are identified and related to relevant
global, national and local perspectives. Laboratories and field trips included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
ENVS179 - Special Topics in Environmental Science
General Information
Specific environmental topics will be explored using a variety of methods which
may include seminars, lectures, research projects, presentations, laboratory
experiments, field work, and all-day or overnight field trips depending on the
quarter offered. Topics for any one quarter may include biodiversity, toxins and
human health, invasive species, water quality, climate change etc.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
ENVS210 - Maps, GIS and the Environment
General Information
Introduces students to the elements of geographic information systems (GIS)
including cartography, data structure, map overlays, and spatial analysis.
Applications of GIS to environmental issues relating to hydrology and watershed
management, soil science, land-use planning, and conservation are explored in a
hands-on style, incorporating both field activities and GIS software. This course is
the same course as GEOG 210. Students may receive credit for either ENVSC 210
or GEOG 210 but not both. Laboratories and field trips included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 249@@@
---LEFT---
Environmental Sustainability Department
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 250@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Environmental Sustainability
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Environmental Sustainability Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Environmental Sustainability Specialization prepares students for advanced
study in sustainability, with a focus on transferring as an Environmental
Sustainability major to the University of Washington Tacoma (UWT). This
interdisciplinary field is designed for students interested in environmental issues
and their impact on human social and economic systems, without requiring a
science-intensive background. The curriculum integrates natural and social
sciences to explore sustainability from multiple perspectives.
Upon transfer to UWT, students may choose one of four areas of emphasis:
• Environmental Policy and Law
• Environmental Communication
• Business/Nonprofit Environmental Sustainability
• Environmental Education
Environmental Sustainability majors are expected to demonstrate strong skills in
communication, writing, and computer literacy. Additional prerequisite
coursework may be required depending on the chosen emphasis.
Students planning to transfer to institutions other than UWT should consult with
an environmental sustainability advisor to ensure appropriate course selection and
transfer alignment.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Many courses required for
this specialization have prerequisites or are offered only once or twice a year.
Some universities or education programs may require additional prerequisites, a
minimum GPA, or a competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 ENVIR_SUST
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
---RIGHT---
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• At least five credits applied to the degree must be an approved
multicultural course. Approved multicultural courses are identified
on the Approved Distribution Course List and in the credit course
descriptions.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area. The
two exceptions are:
◦ Multicultural Requirement – students can satisfy the
multicultural requirement and a single distribution
requirement with one course.
◦ Specialization Requirements - students can satisfy a
specialization requirement and a single distribution
requirement with one course.
◦ Satisfying multiple requirements with one course does
not change the 90 quarter credit requirement.
• No more than three physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Environmental Sustainability Requirements (40 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&100 - Survey of Biology
OR BIOL110 - Ecology
OR BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• CHEM&110 - Chemical Concepts w/lab
• ECON&201 - Micro Economics
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
• ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science
• GEOG205 - Physical Geography
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• POLS240 - Environmental Politics and Sustainability
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.

@@@PAGE 251@@@
---LEFT---
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Environmental Sustainability Specialization Core Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Environmental Sustainability Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH46 Co-requisite for Statistics -
MATH& 146: Co-requisite for Statistics.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
---RIGHT---
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommend choosing from:
HIST&219 Native American History - Native American History
(Multicultural Course)
ANTH&207 Linguistic Anthropology - Linguistic Anthropology
(Multicultural Course)
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural Communication
(Multicultural Course)
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at last two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Environmental Sustainability Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ECON&201 - Micro Economics
• POLS240 - Environmental Politics and Sustainability
AND
Additional Social Science Distribution Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Environmental Sustainability Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&100 - Survey of Biology
OR BIOL110 - Ecology
OR BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• CHEM&110 - Chemical Concepts w/lab
• GEOG205 - Physical Geography
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Environmental Sustainability Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science

@@@PAGE 252@@@
---LEFT---
AND
Additional Distribution Elective Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
Recommended Course:
BOT101 General Botany - General Botany
College-Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply toward the
degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement and
one distribution requirement. Please consult the listings under each
distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill both criteria.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Environmental Sustainability Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.
Fresh Start Department
For more information on Fresh Start: Fresh Start : Tacoma Community College
Department Email: freshstart@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 253@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
FRSH70 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences: Health
Science
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on health
science. Possible topics include: nutrition; stress management; fitness; disease
prevention and control; drug addiction and recovery; growth and development;
and the impacts of environmental, family and cultural factors on health.
Laboratories are included. This competency based class allows students to work at
their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge,
and earn possible high school completion Science, Lab Science, Contemporary
World Issues, Health, English, and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Prerequisite: ABE 071 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 072 with a
minimum grade of C or ABE 073 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 074
with a minimum grade of C or ABE 075 with a minimum grade of C or ABE
077 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 078 with a minimum grade of C or
ABE 079 with a minimum grade of C or Minimum CASAS reading score of
211 or Minimum writing sample score of 3
---RIGHT---
FRSH72 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies:
Washington State History
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
Washington State History through multicultural perspectives. Students will
examine Washingtons social, cultural, economic, geographical and political history
as well as explore current State issues. This competency based class allows
students to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated
skills and knowledge, and earn possible high school completion Social Studies (WA
State History and/or Government and Civics), English, and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Minimum CASAS score of 211 or Minimum writing sample
score of 3
FRSH73 - R/W for Social Studies:Contemporary World
Issues
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
contemporary world issues. Students will examine diverse societies from around
the world and explore the major issues that affect our ability to connect and thrive
as a global community. Possible topics include: homelessness, poverty, immigration,
human rights, and social and economic inequities. This competency based class
allows students to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to
demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn possible high school completion
Social Studies (Contemporary World Issues), English, and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Minimum CASAS score of 211 or Minimum writing sample
score of 3

@@@PAGE 254@@@
---LEFT---
FRSH74 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences: Biology
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on biology.
Topics include: scientific method and literacy; basic cellular anatomy and
biochemical processes; evolution; diversity of life; and ethical issues related to
scientific and medical research. Laboratories are included. This competency based
class allows students to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to
demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn possible high school completion
English, Science, Lab Science, Contemporary World Issues and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement
Placement into Fresh Start Program
FRSH75 - Reading and Writing for Social Studies: US
History
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on United
States History through multicultural perspectives. The course includes social and
political history and geography providing students with a broad view of Americas
past and present. Possible course topics include: African-American history,
immigrants, womens studies, Native American history, Civil Rights, and major
turning points in US history. This competency based class allows students to work
at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge,
and earn possible high school completion English, Social Studies (US History and/or
Government and Civics), and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Minimum CASAS score of 227 or Minimum writing sample
score of 4
---RIGHT---
FRSH77 - Reading and Writing for the Sciences:
Environmental Science
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on
Environmental Science. Topics include population, ecology, climate change,
sustainability and pollution. Students will specifically focus on environmental
issues related to the Pacific Northwest. Laboratories and field trips are included.
This competency based class allows students to work at their own pace, exit at a
level appropriate to demonstrated skills and knowledge, and earn possible high
school completion English, Lab Science, Science, Contemporary World Issues and/
or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Minimum CASAS reading score of 227 or Minimum writing
sample score of 4

@@@PAGE 255@@@
---LEFT---
FRSH78 - R/W for Social Studies:Contemporary World
Issues 2
General Information
This theme based English course integrates reading, writing, listening, speaking,
and critical thinking skills around assignments and activities focusing on World
Cultures. Using a comparative approach, students will examine societies from
around the world to explore the patterns of human life in areas such as adaptation,
economics, family, political organization, healing, and religion as well as explore
current issues impacting those societies. By examining different peoples through a
cultural anthropologic lens, students will develop a better understanding of the
unity and the diversity of humankind. This competency based class allows students
to work at their own pace, exit at a level appropriate to demonstrated skills and
knowledge, and earn possible high school completion English, Social Studies
(Contemporary World Issues)and/or elective credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Minimum CASAS reading score of 227 or Minimum writing
sample score of 4
FRSH82 - Applied Math I
General Information
Students will read, write and interpret basic mathematical information using whole
numbers, fractions, benchmark percents, and decimals. Students will be introduced
to basic patterns, data, algebraic concepts, measurement, geometry and
computational skills to solve 1-2 step contextualized real life word problems.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS score of 201-220 as a prerequisite.
---RIGHT---
FRSH83 - Applied Math II
General Information
Students will read, write and interpret mathematical information by applying the
operations of whole numbers and extending skills in fractions, decimals and
percents. Students will use basic patterns and algebraic thinking including
evaluating algebraic expressions and one-two step equations. This course will
integrate real life geometry skills including area, perimeter, volume, lines, angles
and polygons. Students will interpret contextualized line, bar and circle graphs and
measures of central tendency.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE/FRSH
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• FRSH82 - Applied Math I
OR ABE82 - Applied Math I (Inactive)
Additional Comments:
ABE 082 and FRSH 082 are equivalent courses.Minimum grade of C required.
CASAS score of 221-229 is also sufficient.

@@@PAGE 256@@@
---LEFT---
FRSH84 - Pre-Algebra
General Information
Students will read, write and interpret mathematical information by extending
previous knowledge of whole numbers, fractions, decimals and percents in an
algebraic context. Students will apply ratios and proportions to algebraic word
problems. Students will extend algebraic thinking including signed numbers, order
of operations, evaluating algebraic expressions and solving one-three step
equations. This course will integrate real life geometry skills including area,
perimeter, volume, lines, angles, Pythagorean Theorem, circles, cylinders and
polygons by applying algebraic formulas.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE/FRSH
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• FRSH83 - Applied Math II
OR ABE83 - Applied Math II
Additional Comments:
ABE 083 and FRSH 083 are equivalent courses. Minimum grade of C
required. CASAS score of 230-235 is also sufficient
---RIGHT---
FRSH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
General Information
This is a beginning algebra course specifically designed for students with
pre-algebra background. Topics include variables and signed numbers, solutions to
linear equations and inequalities, simplification of algebraic expressions,
evaluation and manipulation of formulas, an emphasis on word problems,
coordinate geometry, graphing of linear equations, and scatterplots. Scientific
calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Prerequisite: Math CASAS score of 236-245 or ABE 084 with a minimum
grade of B- or Accuplacer at MATH 85 AND ENGL/ 085 with a minimum
grade of C or ABE 074 with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 075 with a
minimum grade of B- or ABE 077 with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 078
with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 079 with a minimum grade of B- or
Accuplacer at ENGL/ 085 or Reading CASAS score of 227 or above
Corequisite: ENGL/ 085 or ABE 074 or ABE 075 or ABE 077 or ABE 078
or ABE 079
FRSH90 - Elementary Algebra
General Information
Topics include linear equations, polynomials, factoring, rational expressions, and
graphing. Scientific calculator required.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 8
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Prerequisite: Math CASAS score 246-250 AND Accuplacer placement of
Math 90 or MATH 085 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 085 with a
minimum grade of B- AND ENGL/ 085 with a minimum grade of C or ABE
074 with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 075 with a minimum grade of B-
or ABE 077 with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 078 with a minimum
grade of B- or ABE 079 with a minimum grade of B- or Accuplacer at
ENGL/ 085 or Reading CASAS score of 227 or above Corequisite: ENGL/
085 or ABE 074 or ABE 075 or ABE 077 or ABE 078 or ABE 079

@@@PAGE 257@@@
---LEFT---
FRSH94 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
General Information
An integrated pre-college course designed to improve the student's reading and
writing ability for entrance into ENGL& 101. Course work focuses on critical
reading and analytical writing in response to readings, with an emphasis on
organization, unity, coherence, and adequate development; an introduction to
expository essays; and a review of the rules and conventions of standard written
English. Essay and research writing is included. This is a preparatory class for
college success with reading emphasis on text analysis for structure, inferring
meaning, critical thinking, and vocabulary development. Introduction to literary
devices is included.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 5 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Prerequisite: ABE 074 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 075 with a
minimum grade of C or ABE 077 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 078
with a minimum grade of C or ABE 079 with a minimum grade of C or
ENGL/ 085 with a minimum grade of C or Placement in ENGL/ 095
FRSH95 - Intermediate Algebra
General Information
Topics include introduction to functions; linear, quadratic, exponential and
logarithmic functions and their applications; systems of linear equations and
inequalities and their applications; rational exponents and radicals.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
ABE
Prerequisite: MATH CASAS score 251-256 AND Accuplacer placement
of Math 95 or ABE 090 with a minimum grade of B- or MATH 090 with a
minimum grade of C AND ENGL/ 085 with a minimum grade of C or ABE
074 with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 075 with a minimum grade of B-
or ABE 077 with a minimum grade of B- or ABE 078 with a minimum
grade of B- or ABE 079 with a minimum grade of B- or Accuplacer at
ENGL/ 085 or Reading CASAS score of 227 or above Corequisite: ENGL/
085 or ABE 074 or ABE 075 or ABE 077 or ABE 078 or ABE 079
---RIGHT---
FRSH98 - English - Fresh Start
General Information
Introduction to literacy and study skills for beginning students enrolled in the
Fresh Start program. Academically, the focus is on developing competence in
Reading, English, and Technology, but instruction is also provided for social
development and is aimed at providing students with skills to be resilient and to
focus on program completion.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
FRSH100 - Pathways to College Success
General Information
This course is designed as an introduction to college for students entering the
Fresh Start program. Its purpose is to prepare students to meet the demands of
college, understand the expectations of instructors, develop social skills, and
improve life management techniques in order to increase their success once they
transition into regular TCC courses. Topics may include goal setting, time
management, values identification, conflict management, problem solving,
resource identification, self-advocacy skills; leveraging students cultural capital;
setting and achieving goals; academic planning; self-care and stress management;
cultivating mentor, peer and community relationships; communication; career
exploration; financial education; connecting with college and community
resources; critical thinking related to equity, diversity, and inclusion; and
information literacy..
Components Credits
Lecture 5

@@@PAGE 258@@@
---LEFT---
General Transfer Department
For more information on our General Transfer degree options: I want to transfer to a
---RIGHT---
four-year college : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 259@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 260@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
Graduates are prepared to transfer with junior standing into a bachelor’s degree
program at most Washington State public baccalaureate institutions. Students
planning to transfer to institutions outside Washington should consult with their
intended transfer school to ensure course compatibility and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 LASDTAA Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
---RIGHT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills

@@@PAGE 261@@@
---LEFT---
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Science or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
• No more than three PE activity credits may be applied toward
the degree.
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
---RIGHT---
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
Any college level course numbered 100 or above.
No more than three PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Students may apply a single Multicultural-designated course from the
Communication Skills, Humanities Distribution, or Social Sciences
Distribution to fulfill up to two requirements simultaneously -
multicultural requirement and one distribution requirement. This overlap
does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Associate in Arts, Option B
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, Option B
Catalog Description
This TCC degree option is awarded in fields of study for which the transfer
requirements of a four-year college or university differ significantly from TCC’s
Associate of Arts (DTA) requirements and no major related degree exists.
Option B degrees are designed to transfer only to specific programs within specific
four-year colleges or universities. Students who are uncertain where they will
transfer or which program/major they will pursue should consult with their
advisors. Such students may be better served by pursuing Associate of Arts (DTA)
degrees or other major-related transfer degrees.
Students who know to which programs and institutions they plan to transfer and
are interested in Option B degrees, should consult with advisors at their intended
transfer institutions regarding program requirements. They should also be
assigned to a designated TCC Option B faculty advisor for their specific
major-related areas, preferably by the end of their first TCC year.
Two quarters before TCC graduation, Option B students should complete the
Option B application form, available from the Enrollment Services credentials
evaluator, Bldg. 7. The Option B application must be signed by the student’s Option
B advisor and include copies of the requirements or recommendations published
by the four-year institutions or written recommendations by an undergraduate
departmental advisor of the four-year institutions. Student’s Option B advisor can
assist with these forms.
While Option B advisors provide assistance, students pursuing Option B degrees
are responsible for securing adequate assurances from their four-year institutions
that their Option B programs will be accepted by the transfer institution.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 LASDBAA Fall 2025

@@@PAGE 262@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in General Studies
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in General Studies
Catalog Description
The Associate in General Studies degree is designed for students seeking a flexible
academic pathway that allows for broad exploration across disciplines while
earning an associate degree.
This degree is not intended for transfer and is not part of Washington’s
Inter-College Transfer and Articulation Agreement. While some courses may be
accepted for transfer credit by four-year institutions, acceptance is determined on
a case-by-case basis and is subject to individual evaluation by the receiving
institution.
Students planning to transfer to a four-year college or university are strongly
encouraged to pursue the Associate in Arts, DTA, which is specifically designed for
transfer and aligns with statewide articulation agreements.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 LASGSAGS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
General Education Requirement (43 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
---RIGHT---
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
• ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Humanities (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Associate in General Studies - Humanities - Literary Arts
• Associate in General Studies - Humanities- Performance and
Fine Arts
Social Science (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Associate in General Studies - Social Science
Credits must come from two distinct academic disciplines.
Math / Science (10 credits)
Complete five credits from two of the following:
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Natural Science (Astronomy, Biology, Botany, Environmental Science,
Nutrition, Science)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Associate in General Studies - Natural Science
OR
Physical Science (Chemistry, Geography, Geology, Oceanography,
Physics, Physical Science)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Associate in General Studies - Physical Science
OR
Mathematics (100 or above)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Associate in General Studies - Math
OR
Biological Anthropology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ANTH&205 - Biological Anthropology
OR
Primatology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ANTH&245 - Primatology
OR
Physical Geography
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 263@@@
---LEFT---
• GEOG205 - Physical Geography
Physical Education
Earn at least 3 credits from the following:
• Associate in General Studies - Physical Education
Electives (47 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• Complete 47 credits of elective credit, which may be any college
level course numbered 100 or above.
• Physical education activity courses are not eligible for elective
credit, as no more than three PE activity credits may be applied
toward the degree.
---RIGHT---
Associate in Science Transfer Degree Track 2:
Engineering, Physics, and Atmospheric Sciences
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Degree Track 2: Engineering, Physics, and
Atmospheric Sciences
Catalog Description
The Associate in Science Transfer (AS-T) Degree Track 2 provides a well-rounded
foundation to support students who wish to major in the areas of engineering,
physics, and atmospheric science. Students pursuing this degree are strongly
encouraged to select a specialization which will provide more focused
requirements for students wishing to major in a specific area. These specializations
meet the general Track 2 requirements while providing major-specific coursework
intended to prepare the student for transfer to a baccalaureate institution with
junior standing.
Students who are not working toward a specialization are discouraged from simply
picking classes off the general Track 2 course list without the help of a TCC advisor
who understands the Associate in Science requirements, as this may significantly
extend the time required to earn a Bachelor’s degree.
Track 2 specializations include:
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Atmospheric Science
Specialization
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Computer Engineering
Specialization
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and Astronomy
Specialization
In addition, there are four extended Engineering degrees, which require more than
90 credits to better prepare students to meet the prerequisites in their chosen
area of engineering.
The four Engineering degrees are:
• Associate in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering AS-T Track 2/
MRP
• Associate in Civil and Mechanical Engineering AS-T Track 2/ MRP
• Associate in Computer and Electrical Engineering AS-T Track 2/MRP
• Associate in Materials Science and Manufacturing Engineering AS-T
Track 2/ MRP
PLEASE NOTE:
Many classes required for the Associate of Science Degree are offered only once or
twice a year. Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to
plan their programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate of Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 PHST2AS Fall 2025

@@@PAGE 264@@@
---LEFT---
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
---RIGHT---
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (23 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Physics Sequence
Complete 1 full sequence. Some baccalaureate institutions require PHYS&
221-223 and will not accept PHYS& 114-116.
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
General Physics Sequence
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&114 - General Physics I
• PHYS&115 - General Physics II
• PHYS&116 - General Physics III
OR
Engineering Physics Sequence
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and
Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Chemistry Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
Electives (32 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 32 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.

@@@PAGE 265@@@
---LEFT---
• Elective courses should be selected based on major and transfer
institution. See your advisor for suggestions.
---RIGHT---
Associate in Science Transfer Degree Track 1: Biological
Sciences, Environmental/Resource Sciences, Chemistry,
Geology, and Earth Science
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science, Transfer Degree - Track 1: Biological Sciences,
Environmental/Resource Sciences, Chemistry, Geology, and Earth Science
Catalog Description
The Associate in Science Track 1 (AS-T1) transfer degree is designed for students
who plan to transfer to specific science majors at baccalaureate institutions.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly encouraged to select a Track 1
Specialization which will provide more focused requirements for students wishing
to major in a specific area. These specializations meet the general Track 1
requirements while providing major-specific coursework intended to prepare the
student for transfer to a baccalaureate institution with junior standing.
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Biology Specialization
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Chemistry Specialization
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Earth Sciences Specialization
• Associate in Science Transfer Track 1 - Environmental Sciences
Specialization
Students who are not working toward a specialization are discouraged from simply
picking classes off the general Track 1 course list without the help of a TCC advisor
who understands the Associate in Science requirements, as this may significantly
extend the time required to earn a Bachelor’s degree.
PLEASE NOTE:
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 LRST1AS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the 90 applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The one exception is the Multicultural Requirement.
Students can meet this requirement by choosing a
multicultural-designated course within the

@@@PAGE 266@@@
---LEFT---
Humanities or Social Sciences—allowing one course to
count for both the distribution area and the
Multicultural Requirement.
• No more than 3 physical education activity credits will apply
towards the degree.
• At least 5 credits applied to the degree must be an approved
multicultural course. Approved multicultural courses are identified
on the Approved Distribution Course List and in the credit course
descriptions.
Distribution Requirements (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative Skills / Symbolic Reasoning (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (45-48 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (20 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
• CHEM&163 - General Chemistry w/Lab III
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
OR MATH&153 - Calculus III
---RIGHT---
Track 1 Sequence Requirement (15-18 credits)
Complete one of the follow sequences based on the requirements of your
transfer institution. Students should complete full sequence at a single
institution and not break the sequence up between multiple institutions.
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Biology Sequence
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&221 - Introduction to Evolution, Ecology and
Biodiversity
• BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology
• BIOL&223 - Introduction to the Biology of Organisms
OR
General Physics Sequence
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&114 - General Physics I
• PHYS&115 - General Physics II
• PHYS&116 - General Physics III
OR
Engineering Physics Sequence
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and
Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Science/Math Electives (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Associate in Science Track 1 Electives
Electives (12-15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 12-15 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90
credits.
• All elective credits must be selected from courses numbered 100
or above.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed under the Communication, Quantitative Skills/
Symbolic Reasoning, Humanities, Social Sciences, Natural
Sciences, or General Distribution Courses sections of the
Approved Distribution Course List.
• Courses should be planned with an advisor based on the
requirements of the specific discipline and the transfer
institution.
• No more than 3 Physical Education Activity Credits may apply to
this degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type

@@@PAGE 267@@@
---LEFT---
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Geography Department
Geography Department Chair: Heather Cushman - hcushman@tacomacc.edu
Courses
GEOG205 - Physical Geography
General Information
Study of the formation and evolution of the physical features of the earth, including
the atmosphere, climate, and weather; rocks, minerals, vegetation, and soils;
erosion and modification of the earth's surfaces; and human impact and
modification. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
Geology Department
For more information on our Earth Sciences department: Geology : Tacoma Community
Earth Sciences Department Chair: Heather Cushman - hcushman@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
GEOG210 - Maps, GIS and the Environment
General Information
Introduces students to the elements of geographic information systems (GIS)
including cartography, data structure, map overlays, and spatial analysis.
Applications of GIS to environmental issues relating to hydrology and watershed
management, soil science, land-use planning, and conservation are explored in a
hands-on style, incorporating both field activities and GIS software. This course is
the same course as ENVSC 210. Students may receive credit for either GEOG 210
or ENVSC 210 but not both. Laboratories and field trips included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 268@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
GEOL&101 - Introduction to Physical Geology
General Information
Introduces students to the materials and landscapes of the earth and the diverse
geological processes that produce and change them. Subjects include rock
formation, volcanoes, glaciers, rivers, and earthquakes. The laboratory includes
various activities such as studying rock and mineral specimens, and local field trips.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
GEOL108 - Fossils and the History of Life
General Information
Introduction to the geological and biological processes and events that generated
the amazing record of life on earth. Topics include plate tectonics, rocks,
fossilization processes, principles of evolution, and a survey of the history of life.
Lab includes studying rock and fossil specimens and involves field trips. This course
is the same as BIOL 105. Students may receive credit for either GEOL 108 or BIOL
105 but not both.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
Health Information Management Department
For more information on our Health Information department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/health-information-programs
Department email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Health Information Department Chair: Corinne Jarvis - CJarvis@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
GEOL179 - Special Topics in Geology
General Information
These are seminars designed to provide geology students with the opportunity to
study selected geologic topics and techniques. Topics and/or techniques covered
will generally be determined by the instructor but may also reflect the expressed
need or interest of students in the earth science program. The seminars will be
comprised of lecture, laboratory and fieldtrip activities in varying proportions
depending on the specific topic and needs of participating students.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
GEOL299 - Independent Study in Geology
General Information
Independent study of selected geologic topics.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission

@@@PAGE 269@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 270@@@
---LEFT---
Bachelor of Applied Science in Health Information
Management
Overview
Full Credential Title
Bachelor of Applied Science in Health Information Management
Catalog Description
The Bachelor of Applied Science (BAS) in Health Information Management (HIM)
prepares students for administrative employment in a wide variety of healthcare
settings such as hospitals, clinics, surgery centers, skilled nursing facilities, state or
federal health agencies and more. Career opportunities include (but not limited to)
both remote and in-person roles in revenue cycle, operations or administration,
compliance/risk management, and informatics or data analysis. With curriculum
that includes disciplines of medicine, management, finance, information
technology, and healthcare law, graduates are able to support clinicians,
administrators, technology designers, and information technology professionals in
the health industry.
Successful graduates are eligible to sit for the Registered Health Information
Administrator (RHIA) national credential exam sponsored by the American Health
Information Management Association (AHIMA).
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
180 HMRHIBAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Work & Education Experience
Students must have completed:
1. At least 1 year of work experience in a healthcare or business
environment
2. An Associate Degree in a health-related field or
business-related field, from an accredited institution with a
cumulative GPA of 2.5 and a minimum of 2.0 in all applicable
college courses OR
At least 90 college-level credits from an accredited institution
with a cumulative GPA of 2.5 and a minimum of 2.0 in all
applicable college courses
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 180 credits in courses numbered 100 or above.
---RIGHT---
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ TCC’s bachelor’s degree programs follow a 2+2
model, meaning students must complete an
associate degree—or a minimum of 90 transferable
credits—prior to admission into the bachelor’s
program. Therefore, students enrolled in these
programs are required to complete at least 25% of
the final 90 credits at TCC to meet residency
requirements.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be
considered for equivalency. TCC may also accept
transfer credits for professional/technical programs
if the credits are from an institution with a related
program accreditation. For more information, visit
Transfer Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in
Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or
higher
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that
is applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found
here or by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
General Education Requirements (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Humanities (5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
OR CMST320 - Professional and Organizational
Communication
Social Science (5 credit)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
OR PSYC&220 - Psychological Disorders
OR SOC262 - Race and Ethnic Relations
Natural Sciences (5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2

@@@PAGE 271@@@
---LEFT---
Distribution Electives (10 credits)
Courses must be completed with a minimum grade of C or higher.
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Health Information Management Prerequisite Coursework (11-15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Excel Level I (3-5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Required prior to beginning 300 level coursework.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Medical Terminology (3-5 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
Required prior to beginning 300 level coursework.
Health Information Coursework (5 credits)
To ensure readiness for advanced coursework in Health Information
Management, students must demonstrate prior work experience or
successful completion of college-level coursework in the following subject
areas:
• Healthcare Systems
• Medical Records and Standards
• Healthcare Data Quality
• Hospital Statistics
• Healthcare Payment Methodologies and Classification
Systems
• Computer Concepts for Health Information
Students whose background in one or more of these areas is found to be
insufficient—based on a review conducted by the Program Chair—will be
required to enroll in HIM 299 to address the identified gaps.
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM299 - Individual Study in HIM
Students who meet this requirement through prior work experience or
coursework may need to complete additional college-level electives to
satisfy the 180-credit requirement for the degree.
---RIGHT---
Health Information Management Core Requirements (78 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Fall (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL301 - Professional Writing and Communication in
Healthcare
• HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
• HIM315 - Health Law
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
Second Quarter - Winter (13 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM320 - Information Protection
• HIM325 - Health Data Structure & Quality
• PHIL320 - Ethical Decision Making
Third Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM335 - Organizational Management in Healthcare
• HIM345 - Classifications and Coding
• PSYC301 - Fundamentals of Research for Healthcare
Fourth Quarter - Fall (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM415 - Foundations of Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
• HIM425 - Information Governance
• HIM435 - Revenue Cycle Management
Fifth Quarter - Winter (10 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM445 - Applied Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
• HIM465 - Health Compliance
Sixth Quarter - Spring (10 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM475 - Leadership in Healthcare
• HIM485 - Capstone/Internship
Health Information Management Electives (13 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Excel Level II Course (3 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU203 - Excel II
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Medical Coding Course (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• HIT141 - Introduction to ICD-10-CM Coding
• HIT170 - Coding for Professional Services

@@@PAGE 272@@@
---LEFT---
• HIT221 - Introduction to ICD-10-PCS/Inpatient Coding
• HIM290 - Introduction to Medical Coding
Pathopharmacology Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIT161 - Pathopharmacology
Electives (39-43 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College-Level Electives
Complete college-level electives to reach 180 credit requirement. All
courses must be completed with a minimum grade of C or higher.
Complete additional elective courses numbered 100 or above as needed to
fulfill the 180 credit requirement for the degree.
Electives will be assigned by HIM Advisor based on student's prior
education and work experience. Elective coursework may include
applicable credits earned through an associate degree.
Recommended courses:
HIT145 Healthcare Statistics - Healthcare Statistics
HIM295 Computer Concepts for Health Information - Computer Concepts
for Health Information
IT246 Database Implementation - Database Implementation
IT441 Data Science and Big Data Analytics - Data Science and Big Data
Analytics
Program Accreditation
Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and
Information Management Education (CAHIIM)
201 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100 Last Accreditation Review
Chicago, IL 60601 2/27/2020
312- 235-3255
https://www.cahiim.org/
Program Map
Bachelor of Applied Science in Health Information Management Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 273@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
HIM290 - Introduction to Medical Coding
General Information
This course introduces the basic principles of diagnostic and procedural medical
coding including official guidelines, rules and regulations. Applicable revenue cycle
processes and ethical standards of practice will also be discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
HIM295 - Computer Concepts for Health Information
General Information
This course introduces computer concepts and technologies in the healthcare
industry related to systems, control units, and data storage.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
HIM299 - Individual Study in HIM
General Information
Individual study of an aspect of HIM in accordance with the interest and ability of
the student and the approval of the instructor. Credits to be arranged on the basis
of the nature and extent of the project undertaken.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Chair Permission
Program Chair Permission Required.
HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
General Information
This course covers foundational Health Information concepts related to healthcare
delivery in the United States. Students will be introduced to health record content,
health information access and protection, record storage, retention, and
destruction, legal principles related to health information, revenue cycle
management, and regulatory and legislative initiatives that affect healthcare.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the Bachelor of Applied Science in Health Information
Management Program.

@@@PAGE 274@@@
---LEFT---
HIM315 - Health Law
General Information
This course will cover the legal system, laws, polices, and external forces that affect
the U.S. healthcare system. Students will investigate the impact of policy on health,
ethical standards of practice, and compliance.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into Bachelor of Applied Science in Health Information
Management Program Required.
HIM320 - Information Protection
General Information
This course covers health information protection, access, use, disclosure, and
compliance. Topics to include HIPAA privacy and security standards,
confidentiality, protected health information, and applicable laws, regulations and
policies. Students will gain knowledge of the legal and ethical implications of
information protection.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.
---RIGHT---
HIM325 - Health Data Structure & Quality
General Information
This course will examine how internal and external forces affect health data,
structure, and quality. Primary concepts covered include information governance
and management, data structures, data integrity, standards, and compliance.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.
HIM335 - Organizational Management in Healthcare
General Information
This course will cover organizational and change management principles, human
resource management strategies, strategic planning, and financial management
processes. Students will explore performance improvement concepts and the
development of inclusive practices which embrace cultural diversity and enhance
equitable outcomes.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.

@@@PAGE 275@@@
---LEFT---
HIM345 - Classifications and Coding
General Information
This course covers concepts related to healthcare revenue cycle management
processes including classification systems and terminologies, clinical coding,
chargemaster, billing, reimbursement, compliance, and auditing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into the HIM BAS Program - Instructor Permission Only
Health Information Management Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
• HIM320 - Information Protection
HIM415 - Foundations of Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
General Information
This class focuses on data use, analytics, and informatics concepts. Students will
learn the building blocks of extracting and analyzing data using MS Excel, graphical
user interface, structured query language (SQL), and data visualizations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM325 - Health Data Structure & Quality
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.
---RIGHT---
HIM425 - Information Governance
General Information
This course will focus on the management and governance of health data including
data integrity, integration and standardization. Students will evaluate
organizational strategies to support the management of information associated
with treatment, payment and operations as well as regulatory, legal, risk, and
environmental compliance requirements.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM320 - Information Protection
AND HIM325 - Health Data Structure & Quality
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.
HIM435 - Revenue Cycle Management
General Information
This course will cover an in depth analysis of revenue cycle and reimbursement
methodologies. Students will learn how to develop and implement healthcare
finance and reimbursement processes. Topics include clinical documentation
integrity, claims management, casemix management, fraud detection, auditing and
monitoring, and compliance.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM330 - Revenue Cycle Management (Inactive)
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.

@@@PAGE 276@@@
---LEFT---
HIM445 - Applied Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
General Information
This course will focus on the practice of data extraction, preparation, analysis and
visualization for decision making. Students will utilize data tools and apply
techniques to analyze clinical data and identify trends.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM415 - Foundations of Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.
HIM465 - Health Compliance
General Information
This course will focus on organizational compliance related to regulation and
external forces that impact health information and quality of care. Students will
evaluate and manage standards, policies and procedures, quality improvement, and
risk management processes.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM315 - Health Law
AND HIM425 - Information Governance
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.
---RIGHT---
HIM475 - Leadership in Healthcare
General Information
This course will focus on executive leadership skills such as interprofessional
communication, strategic management, project management, performance
improvement, and ethical standards of behavior.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Acceptance into the HIM BAS Program and HIM 335 with a minimum
grade of C and HIM 465 with a minimum grade of C
Additional Comments:
Minimum grade of C required. Must be accepted into HIM program.

@@@PAGE 277@@@
---LEFT---
HIM485 - Capstone/Internship
General Information
This course includes the creation of a culminating capstone project and internship
to be completed in collaboration with a local health organization that will showcase
the students mastery of HIM domains. Additionally, each student will write and
present research findings and present prepare for the RHIA exam.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Management
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIM301 - Foundations in Health Information
AND HIM315 - Health Law
AND HIM320 - Information Protection
AND HIM325 - Health Data Structure & Quality
AND HIM330 - Revenue Cycle Management (Inactive)
AND HIM335 - Organizational Management in Healthcare
AND HIM415 - Foundations of Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
AND HIM425 - Information Governance
AND HIM435 - Revenue Cycle Management
AND HIM445 - Applied Data, Data Analytics and Data
Visualization
AND HIM465 - Health Compliance
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher. Must be accepted
into HIM program. Instructor permission required.
Health Information Technology Department
For more information on our Health Information department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/health-information-programs
Department email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Health Information Department Chair: Corinne Jarvis - CJarvis@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 278@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 279@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Health Information
Technology
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Health Information Technology
Catalog Description
The Health Information Technology (HIT) program prepares students for
entry-level career opportunities in the field of Health Information Management
(HIM) such as medical coding, release of information, or medical records
management. The HIT program is offered 100% online and leads to an Associate in
Applied Sciences (AAS) degree. Program curriculum includes disciplines of
medicine, management, finance, information technology, and healthcare law.
Because of this unique mixture, graduates may work in a variety of work settings
across an array of healthcare environments.
Graduates are eligible to sit for the Registered Health Information Technician
(RHIT) national credential exam. The program offers graduates direct articulation
into TCC's Bachelor of Applied Science (BAS) in Health Information Management
(HIM), which is also accredited by the Commission on the Accreditation for Health
Informatics and Information Management (CAHIIM). Graduates of the HIM BAS
degree program are eligible to sit for the Registered Health Information
Management Administrator (RHIA) credential exam.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
108-110 HMRHIAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 108 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100
or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Health Records Certificate (26-30 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Prerequisite Coursework (11-15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• CU103 - Excel I
---RIGHT---
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
First Quarter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT120 - Information Protection
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT126 - Health Information Technologies
• LS101 - Introduction to Research
Health Information Associate Certificate (28 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Second Quarter (13 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• CU203 - Excel II
• HIT145 - Healthcare Statistics
• HIT195 - Health Law
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Third Quarter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT173 - Data Analytics
• HIT175 - Healthcare Quality and Performance Improvement
• HIT225 - Record Content and Standards II
Core Requirements (52-54 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Fourth Quarter (12 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• HIT161 - Pathopharmacology
• HIT131 - Medical Terminology II
HIT131 not required if student completed HIT105 for Health Records
Certificate.
Fifth Quarter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT141 - Introduction to ICD-10-CM Coding
• HIT221 - Introduction to ICD-10-PCS/Inpatient Coding
• HIT242 - Leadership and Management
Sixth Quarter (14 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:

@@@PAGE 280@@@
---LEFT---
• HIT170 - Coding for Professional Services
• HIT230 - Revenue Cycle
• HIT245 - Coding and Legal Compliance
Seventh Quarter (13 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT251 - Advanced Coding Practicum
• HIT254 - HIT Capstone
• HIT255 - HIT Professional Practice Experience
Program Accreditation
Commission on the Accreditation for Health Informatics
and Information Management
201 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100 Last Accreditation Review
Chicago, IL 60601 5/18/2022
312- 235-3255
https://www.cahiim.org/
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Health Information Technology Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Health Information Associate Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Health Information Associate Certificate
Catalog Description
The Health Information Associate Certificate prepares students for entry-level
health information positions with knowledge about health record content and
standards, healthcare legislation, privacy and security regulations, technologies
and systems for managing health information, and healthcare quality.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
54-58 HMRHEC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All courses required for the certificate must be passed with grade C
or higher.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Health Records Certificate (26-30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Prerequisite Coursework (11-15 Credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
First Quarter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT120 - Information Protection
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT126 - Health Information Technologies
• LS101 - Introduction to Research
Core Requirements (28 credits)

@@@PAGE 281@@@
---LEFT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Second Quarter (13 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• CU203 - Excel II
• HIT145 - Healthcare Statistics
• HIT195 - Health Law
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU203 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Third Quarter (15 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT173 - Data Analytics
• HIT175 - Healthcare Quality and Performance Improvement
• HIT225 - Record Content and Standards II
Program Map
Health Information Associate Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Health Records Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Health Records Certificate
Catalog Description
The Health Records Certificate prepares students for entry-level healthcare
clerical positions with knowledge about the U.S. healthcare systems, health
records, the privacy and security of health information, and health technologies.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
26-30 HMRHRC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All courses required for the certificate must be passed with grade C
or higher.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Health Records Prerequisite Coursework (11-15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Prerequisite Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
Required for HIT120, HIT125, and HIT126.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103 . To initiate
the substitution process or for additional information, students should
contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine Cerny.
Core Requirements (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 282@@@
---LEFT---
• HIT120 - Information Protection
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT126 - Health Information Technologies
• LS101 - Introduction to Research
Program Map
Health Records Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Medical Billing Specialist Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Medical Billing Specialist Certificate
Catalog Description
The Medical Billing Specialist certificate program prepares students for
employment in support positions such as medical billing, claims review, patient
account or patient access representative, and a variety of other entry-level roles.
Students will learn about healthcare delivery, medical office procedures, medical
billing and claims processing, and an overview of medical coding. This program will
give the graduate tools to be a valuable resource to physician offices, large group
practices, ambulatory surgery centers, and insurance organizations. This program
is offered in a fully online format.
NOTICE: Knowledge of how medical coding works in relation to medical billing is
included within this program, however the curriculum is not designed to provide
skills to become a medical coder. The Associate in Applied Science in Health
Information Technology program is recommended to learn the skills of medical
coding.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
47-49 MISMBC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Medical Billing Prerequisite Coursework (8-10 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Required prior to taking MO101
Medical Terminology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
OR HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
Required prior to or concurrently with MO101

@@@PAGE 283@@@
---LEFT---
Core Requirements (39 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Fall (12 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MO101 - Healthcare Delivery and Alternate Care
• MO131 - Beginning Outpatient Dx Coding
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Students may complete CU102 Word I - Word I and CU103 Excel I - Excel I
in lieu of CU105.
Second Quarter - Winter (13 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• MO110 - Medical Office Procedures
• MO159 - Beginning Outpatient Px Coding
Third Quarter - Spring (14 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MO143 - Medical Office Professional Development and
Ethics
• MO151 - Insurance Claims Processing
• MO185 - Medical Billing Specialist (MBS) Practicum
• CU203 - Excel II
Program Map
Medical Billing Specialist Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Medical Scribe Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Medical Scribe Certificate
Catalog Description
Medical scribes work closely with medical practitioners to document patient visits
and to support work flow for documentation and medical record coding. Medical
Scribes can work in all types of medical environments to include emergency
departments, physician offices, and urgent care. Students who complete this
program may be eligible to sit for the Certified Medical Scribe Apprentice (CMSA)
credential through the American College of Medical Scribe Specialists. This
certificate includes medical terminology, basic anatomy, CMS Core Measures,
Basics of coding, Documentation requirements, HIPAA compliance, and training in
the functions and use of the electronic health record.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
19 MEPMSC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• MO115 - Medical Scribe
Medical Terminology
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
AND HIT131 - Medical Terminology II
Program Map
Medical Scribe Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course

@@@PAGE 284@@@
---LEFT---
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
Courses
HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
General Information
This course covers the comprehensive study of roots, prefixes, suffixes, principles
of word building, study of diagnostic, operative, and symptomatic terms of body
systems, medical abbreviations, selected eponyms, and clinical laboratory and
radiology terminology.The following body systems will be covered:
musculoskeletal, respiratory, cardiovascular, ingegumentary, gastroenterology,
neurology, urinary, male reproductive, gynecology, and obstetrics. An emphasis will
be placed on accurate spelling and pronunciation of all medical terms.
Note: Completion of both HIT 130 and HIT 131 is equivalent to HIT 105
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
HIT120 - Information Protection
General Information
This course discusses the access, use, disclosure, privacy, and security of health
information with an emphasis on compliance with the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and the health information life cycle.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I

@@@PAGE 285@@@
---LEFT---
HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
General Information
This course discusses health record content across the continuum of care, the
health information life cycle, how classification systems, clinical vocabularies, and
medical nomenclatures are used in healthcare, and HIM department policies and
procedures. Insight will be gained into various stakeholders of the U.S. Healthcare
System, external forces that impact healthcare, legislation and accreditation
standards that impact health records, and organizational strategies to support
healthcare environments.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
---RIGHT---
HIT126 - Health Information Technologies
General Information
This course will cover health information management technologies, healthcare
information systems, and processes and strategies for managing data and data
integrity. Students will be introduced to health information exchange,
interoperability and consumer engagement activities.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU103 - Excel I
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I

@@@PAGE 286@@@
---LEFT---
HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
General Information
This course covers the study of roots, prefixes, suffixes; principles of word building,
study of diagnostic, operative, and symptomatic terms of body systems, emphasis
on accurate spelling and pronunciations; study of medical abbreviations, selected
eponyms, clinical laboratory and radiology terminology. The course covers multiple
systems with a focus on musculoskeletal, respiratory, and cardiovascular systems.
An emphasis is placed on accurate spelling and pronunciation of all medical terms.
Note: Completion of both HIT 130 and HIT 131 is equivalent to HIT 105.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
HIT131 - Medical Terminology II
General Information
This course covers the continuing study of selected roots, prefixes and suffixes;
principles of word building; study of diagnostic, operative, and symptomatic terms
of body systems; medical abbreviations; selected eponyms, and clinical laboratory
and radiology terminology. The course will focus on the integumentary,
gastroenterology, neurology, urinary, male reproductive, gynecology, and
obstetrics systems. There will be an emphasis on accurate spelling and
pronunciation of all medical terms.
Note: Completion of both HIT 130 and HIT 131 is equivalent to HIT 105.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation:
Type
Prerequisite
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Enrollment Requirements:
Type
Prerequisite
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I

@@@PAGE 287@@@
---LEFT---
HIT141 - Introduction to ICD-10-CM Coding
General Information
This course will introduce students to the basic principles & official guidelines of
ICD-10-CM. Students will learn how to apply the guidelines, coding conventions,
and chapter specific principles for code selection and sequencing. Emphasis will be
placed on the importance of how to select ICD-10-CM diagnostic codes in various
healthcare settings using medical documentation and knowledge of human
anatomy and pathophysiology.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT161 - Pathopharmacology
• HIT195 - Health Law
---RIGHT---
HIT145 - Healthcare Statistics
General Information
This course covers common statistical calculations and research concepts that are
utilized in a hospital environment. Students will calculate healthcare statistics and
create graphical representations using Microsoft Excel.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
HIT159 - Domain Connections: Information Protection
General Information
Concepts centered around information protection will be analyzed and discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT120 - Information Protection
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I

@@@PAGE 288@@@
---LEFT---
HIT161 - Pathopharmacology
General Information
This course will cover the etiology, signs, symptoms, disease process, clinical
course, diagnostic procedures, and pharmacology related to selected general
medical conditions. Disease prognosis and therapeutic treatment will also be
discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
Biology course can be taken concurrently.
HIT169 - Domain Connections: Informatics and Analytics
General Information
Concepts centered on AHIMA Domain III, Informatics and Analytics will be
analyzed and discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HIT141 - Introduction to ICD-10-CM Coding
---RIGHT---
HIT170 - Coding for Professional Services
General Information
This course will introduce students to the basic principles and official guidelines of
the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding Systems (CPT and HCPCS II) in various
healthcare settings. Students will gain an understanding of the CPT manual layout,
coding rules and regulations, resources, Level II guidelines, and E/M coding
methods. Students will learn how to apply HCPCS chapter specific principles for
code selection and sequencing in coding scenarios. Emphasis will be placed on the
importance pairing diagnostic codes with HCPCS codes using medical
documentation and knowledge of human anatomy and pathophysiology to convey
medical necessity.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT141 - Introduction to ICD-10-CM Coding
• HIT221 - Introduction to ICD-10-PCS/Inpatient Coding

@@@PAGE 289@@@
---LEFT---
HIT173 - Data Analytics
General Information
This course covers the basic fundamentals of data analytics, data management, and
standards for the exchange of health information. Students will perform data
analysis using Microsoft Excel.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT126 - Health Information Technologies
• HIT145 - Healthcare Statistics
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
Excel Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU203 - Excel II
---RIGHT---
HIT175 - Healthcare Quality and Performance
Improvement
General Information
This course covers policies, processes, and strategies to achieve healthcare quality.
Students will be introduced to fundamental concepts of quality management and
performance improvement in the healthcare industry.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT126 - Health Information Technologies
• HIT195 - Health Law
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU203 - Excel II

@@@PAGE 290@@@
---LEFT---
HIT195 - Health Law
General Information
This course discusses health law and policies that impact health information. Topics
to be discussed include the United States legal system, federal and state legislation,
policy-making processes, legal procedures, judicial processes, principles of liability,
confidentiality, informed consent, and release of information. Other topics to
include the legal health record and designated record set, custodianship of the
health record, retention and destruction of the health record, and health record
archive methods.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Medical Terminology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
OR HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
HIT199 - Domain Connections: Data Structure and
Content
General Information
Concepts centered around data structure and information governance will be
analyzed and discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT175 - Healthcare Quality and Performance Improvement
HIT175 may be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
HIT221 - Introduction to ICD-10-PCS/Inpatient Coding
General Information
This course will introduce students to the basic principles & official guidelines of
ICD-10-PCS and inpatient coding. Students will learn how to apply inpatient
coding guidelines and chapter specific principles for code selection and
sequencing. Emphasis will be placed on the importance of how to select
ICD-10-PCS codes in the inpatient setting using medical documentation and
knowledge of human anatomy and pathophysiology.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT161 - Pathopharmacology
• HIT195 - Health Law
HIT225 - Record Content and Standards II
General Information
This course covers health record content and compliance requirements for a
variety of healthcare organization types including acute care, outpatient,
psychiatric, long-term care, home health, and hospice. Record data integrity will be
explored along with health record privacy and security applications.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT120 - Information Protection
• HIT125 - Record Content and Standards I
• HIT195 - Health Law

@@@PAGE 291@@@
---LEFT---
HIT230 - Revenue Cycle
General Information
This course focuses on healthcare reimbursement and payment systems, their
impact on the revenue cycle, as well as health insurance, coding and billing
compliance, and value-based purchasing initiatives.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT141 - Introduction to ICD-10-CM Coding
• HIT221 - Introduction to ICD-10-PCS/Inpatient Coding
• HIT225 - Record Content and Standards II
HIT239 - Domain Connections: Revenue Cycle
Management
General Information
Concepts centered around healthcare reimbursement methodologies and revenue
cycle management will be analyzed and discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT170 - Coding for Professional Services
• HIT221 - Introduction to ICD-10-PCS/Inpatient Coding
• HIT230 - Revenue Cycle
HIT230 can be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
HIT242 - Leadership and Management
General Information
This class will cover fundamental organizational management and leadership
concepts to include change management, human resource strategies, performance
improvement, and financial management.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT175 - Healthcare Quality and Performance Improvement
• HIT225 - Record Content and Standards II
HIT245 - Coding and Legal Compliance
General Information
This course covers advanced coding guidelines including complex coding scenarios
such as E&M level selection, and PCS code selection. Additionally, students will
identify compliance requirements as set by various agencies.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT170 - Coding for Professional Services
• HIT195 - Health Law
• HIT225 - Record Content and Standards II

@@@PAGE 292@@@
---LEFT---
HIT249 - Professional Development for HIM Careers
General Information
This class will focus on professional development and preparing for the job market
in the HIM profession. Students will conduct job market research, create a resume
and cover letter, and practice interview skills.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT242 - Leadership and Management
May be taken concurrently.
HIT251 - Advanced Coding Practicum
General Information
This course covers advanced coding practice with complex scenarios utilizing
patient records. Students will apply skills learned from previous classes for correct
coding assignment.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HIT170 - Coding for Professional Services
• HIT245 - Coding and Legal Compliance
History Department
For more information on our History department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/history
History Department Chair: Katrina Taylor - ktaylor@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
HIT254 - HIT Capstone
General Information
This course is the culminating class for the HIT program. Students will utilize
leadership skills, process improvement and project management techniques to
plan, organize and participate in a HIM Leadership Conference. In addition,
students will conduct research to strengthen their knowledge of AHIMA
Competencies and prepare for the national Registered Health Information
Technician (RHIT) certification exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT173 - Data Analytics
• HIT230 - Revenue Cycle
• HIT242 - Leadership and Management
HIT255 - HIT Professional Practice Experience
General Information
This class includes a supervised professional practice experience (PPE)/internship
opportunity in which students will apply skills and knowledge of AHIMA
Competencies in a healthcare setting. Students will update their resume's and
practice interviewing skills as well as practice for the Registered Health
Information Technician (RHIT) certification exam
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HIT254 - HIT Capstone
or concurrent enrollment.

@@@PAGE 293@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 294@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - History Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - History Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The History Specialization offers students a broad introduction to the political,
social, cultural, and economic developments that have shaped American society
and global civilizations from the past to the present. Through the study of historical
events, ideas, individuals, and movements, students gain a deeper understanding of
how human societies have evolved and interacted across time.
This specialization prepares students to transfer with junior standing into a
bachelor’s degree program in History at most Washington State public
baccalaureate institutions. Students planning to transfer to institutions outside
Washington should consult with their intended transfer school to ensure course
compatibility and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Spring 2025
90 HISTORY
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Specialization Requirements (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
World Civilization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIST&126 - World Civilizations I
• HIST&127 - World Civilizations II
• HIST&128 - World Civilization III
U.S. History Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIST&146 - US History I
• HIST&147 - US History II
• HIST&148 - US History III
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)

@@@PAGE 295@@@
---LEFT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
Recommended Course:
ENGL&102 Composition II: Argument and Persuasion - Composition II:
Argument and Persuasion
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
HIST&219 Native American History - Native American History
(Multicultural Course)
HIST231 American History, American Film - American History, American
Film (Multicultural Course)
PHIL&101 Introduction to Philosophy - Introduction to Philosophy
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
History Specialization World Civilization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIST&126 - World Civilizations I
---RIGHT---
• HIST&127 - World Civilizations II
AND
Additional Social Science Course
Complete 5 credits from the Social Science distribution course list from
a discipline other than History.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&206 Cultural Anthropology - Cultural Anthropology
(Multicultural Course)
POLS&202 United States Government - United States Government
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
(Multicultural Course)
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Additional Comments:
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology (Biological,
Earth, and Physical Sciences)
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
GEOL&101 Introduction to Physical Geology - Introduction to Physical
Geology w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
History Specialization U.S. History Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 296@@@
---LEFT---
• HIST&146 - US History I
• HIST&147 - US History II
• HIST&148 - US History III
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
History Specialization World Civilization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• HIST&128 - World Civilization III
AND
College-Level Elective Course
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply toward
the degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the History Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Social Sciences Distribution to
fulfill up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural
requirement, one specialization requirement, and one distribution
requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
HIST&126 World Civilizations I - World Civilizations I (History
Specialization Course, Social Science Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
HIST&127 World Civilizations II - World Civilizations II (History
Specialization Course, Social Science Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
HIST&128 World Civilization III - World Civilizations III (History
Specialization Course, Social Science Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - History Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 297@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
HIST&126 - World Civilizations I
General Information
Historical study of human societies in the world, with emphasis on their
interactions with each other and the continuous transitions of their traditions from
antiquity to the 9th century. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/College Success
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND COL101 - College 101
Additional Comments:
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE 096 to
support you in this class.
HIST&127 - World Civilizations II
General Information
Historical study of human societies in the world, with emphasis on their
interactions with each other, and the continuous transitions of their traditions
from the 9th to the 18th century. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/College Success
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND COL101 - College 101
Additional Comments:
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE 096 to
support you in this class.
---RIGHT---
HIST&128 - World Civilization III
General Information
Historical study of human societies in the world, with emphasis on their
interactions with each other, and the continuous transitions of their traditions
from the 18th century to the present. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/College Success
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND COL101 - College 101
Additional Comments:
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE 096 to
support you in this class.
HIST&146 - US History I
General Information
The course will explore the key political, social, cultural, and economic events in the
American colonies in the 17th and 18th centuries. Discussions will focus on the
individuals, issues, ideas, and events most responsible for shaping modern America.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/College Success
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND COL101 - College 101
Additional Comments:
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE 096 to
support you in this class.

@@@PAGE 298@@@
---LEFT---
HIST&147 - US History II
General Information
The course will explore the key political, social, cultural, and economic events in
American society in the 19th Century. Discussions will focus on the individuals,
issues, ideas, and events most responsible for shaping modern America.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/College Success
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND COL101 - College 101
Additional Comments:
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE 096 to
support you in this class.
HIST&148 - US History III
General Information
The course will explore the key political, social, cultural, and economic events in
American society in the 20th Century. Discussions will focus on the individuals,
issues, ideas, and events most responsible for shaping modern America.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English/College Success
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND COL101 - College 101
Additional Comments:
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE 096 to
support you in this class.
---RIGHT---
HIST&214 - Pacific NW History
General Information
The course will examine the exploration, settlement and growth of the Pacific
Northwest, with an emphasis on Washington State. Topics will include the
settlement and creation of Washington Territory, as well as the social, economic
and political issues that have shaped Washington State in the 19th and 20th
centuries.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
HIST&215 - Women in US History
General Information
Survey of U.S. history from pre-colonial times to the present from the perspectives
of women of various racial, ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic backgrounds, and
explores how women helped shape U.S. history.
Components Credits
Lecture 5

@@@PAGE 299@@@
---LEFT---
HIST&219 - Native American History
General Information
This course will examine the history of Native American cultures in the United
States. Through readings, lectures, and class discussions, students will explore the
unique histories of several specific Native cultures, as well as the impact that these
cultures had in shaping the course of American history. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
HIST&220 - African-American History
General Information
The course will examine the history of African-Americans in the United States,
tracing the African-American experience from colonial times to present-day
America. Topics will include the development of the institution of slavery in
America, the post-Civil War experience of African-Americans, and the struggle for
civil rights and social justice in America in the 20th Century. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
HIST210 - History of Modern Europe
General Information
An introduction of the common heritage, global dynamics, and historical
components that crafted the making of modern Europe. The course will assess the
unfolding historical events from the 17th century up to the present, examining
major societies in the region, including British, French, German, Italian, and Russian
societies, among others. The focus will be on the interactions among Europe's
different societies, and between Europe and the larger world. (Multicultural
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
HIST211 - History of China
General Information
Historical study of human societies in China, with emphasis on their interactions
with other societies in the greater world, and the continuous transitions of their
traditions from antiquity to the present. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101

@@@PAGE 300@@@
---LEFT---
HIST224 - Multicultural US History
General Information
This course examines 400 years of American ethnic diversity, beginning with
Indigenous populations and the first Europeans arriving in the Colonial era to the
diverse ethnic makeup that characterizes life in the United States today.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
HIST230 - History of Japan
General Information
Historical study of human societies in Japan with emphasis on their interactions
with other societies in the greater world, and the transitions of their traditions
from antiquity to the present. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
HIST231 - American History, American Film
General Information
This course will examine U.S. History, society and culture since 1929 through the
lens of Hollywood feature films. Topics include: the Great Depression, the Cold
War at home and abroad, gender roles and the American family, and the civil rights
movement.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
HIST240 - Religion in America
General Information
The course will examine the history and impact of different religions and religious
ideas in the modern world, with a focus on how these various religions and ideas
have impacted the social, political, and cultural history of the United States.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101

@@@PAGE 301@@@
---LEFT---
HIST244 - The 1960s
General Information
This course will examine key political, social, cultural, economic, and diplomatic
trends in American society from 1960 to 1974. Topics covered will include John F.
Kennedy and the "New Frontier," Lyndon Johnson's "Great Society," the civil rights
movement, the women's movement, the war in Vietnam, the anti-war movement,
and Richard Nixon and Watergate. Particular focus will be on the individuals,
issues, ideas and events most responsible for shaping this period and our
understanding of it.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or current enrollment in ENGL&101
Home & Family Life Department
Home & Family Life Department Chair: Jennifer Karshna - jkarshna@tacomacc.edu
Courses
HFL140 - Child & Family Studies II - Family Health, Safety
and Nutrition
General Information
This course will focus on providing an emotionally and physically safe and healthy
home environment for family members. Topics include nutrition, health care,
personal and physical safety needs and a sense of belonging. Students in this
course should meet college-level expectations.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
HFL141 - Child and Family Studies II - Child Development
General Information
This course will have an emphasis on the development of children's social skills,
values and goals through communication and guidance techniques. Understanding
what behaviors to expect at various ages; learning the language to build
self-esteem; positively communicating expectations and limits and problem solving
techniques. Students in this course should meet college-level expectations.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
---RIGHT---
HFL142 - Child and Family Studies II - Learning
Development
General Information
Provides students with skills to foster intellectual, physical and creative skills in
children. Helping children become enthusiastic, self-motivated learners with
emphasis on technique activities, books and materials that develop the talents of
every child. Students participating in this course should meet college level
expectations.
Components Credits
Lecture 1

@@@PAGE 302@@@
---LEFT---
Human Development Department
Human Development Department Chair: Lexie Generous - lgenerous@tacomacc.edu
Courses
HD98 - Managing Math Anxiety
General Information
Increasing our awareness of why we have math anxiety and an appreciation of our
own attitudes can actually help us to learn anxiety management tools and
strategies to learn math. An emphasis is placed on understanding problem solving
techniques and math assertiveness.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Math
Corequisite: Concurrent enrollment in any TCC Math course or BUS 110
or permission of professor.
HD100 - College Bridge
General Information
This is a seminar designed to prepare non-matriculated high school students for
the challenges, expectations, and new responsibilities of post-secondary
education. Coursework for this class focuses on developing college-ready skills,
such as: career exploration; pre-educational planning; writing preparation;
communication; and critical thinking. Additionally, the course prepares students
for placement and exposes them to TCCs information management systems.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
HD105 - Career and Life Planning
General Information
This course is designed to help students explore their unique interests, values,
skills, capabilities, strengths, and achievements to learn about themselves and find
a career path that is in alignment. Youll learn how to effectively present and
articulate your experiences, skills, interests, goals, and values to potential
opportunities, and cultivate the resources and capital necessary to aid in your
personal and professional development. Well engage in practical and experiential
opportunities, as well as self-reflection and assessment activities to ultimately
develop plans to prepare you for an ever-changing world of work.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
---RIGHT---
HD107 - Managing Academic Anxiety
General Information
Students are helped to examine and reframe mental models that lead to academic
fear and avoidance. Students learn strategies for managing stress and anxiety
when approaching their learning and assessment in the context of a college
campus. Helpful for students with math, test, writing, and science anxieties.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
HD110 - The Power of Conflict and Teamwork
General Information
Each persons approach to conflict management and teamwork may differ based on
their lived experiences and cultural background. This exploratory course is
primarily designed to facilitate growth in self-awareness and self-expression, while
supporting individuals in examining their own history. Students will also uncover
skills related to cultivating personal relationships, managing conflict, and building
meaningful communities of practice.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
HD114 - Exploring Human Potential
General Information
This is a course about one of lifes great tasks: discovering and developing your
potential as a human being. We will explore where we are in lifes journey and try to
chart a path to meaning and happiness in our lives. This class helps students to
identify what is meaningful to them and to discover and develop their individual
potential.
Components Credits
Lecture 3

@@@PAGE 303@@@
---LEFT---
HD116 - Life Choices
General Information
Students will increase self-awareness and decision making skills by exploring: adult
growth and development; the influence of culture, roles and stereotypes; and steps
to successfully navigate the process of constant change and transition.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL85 - Academic Reading and Writing I: Foundations
(Inactive)
HD120 - Loss, Grief, and Healing
General Information
This course is designed to help students gain a richer experience of life through a
greater understanding of loss across the life span. Losses discussed in class will
include not only those that occur through death, but also those that occur
throughout life and affect us all. Grief varies across cultures and individuals and
the course examines the variations in an individual's path through grief and loss, as
well as more general grieving paradigms. Students will gain a more complex
understanding of grief and loss and have an opportunity to learn how to facilitate
healthy adaptations to change for themselves.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 3 5
Human Services Department
For more information on our Human Services Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/human-services-program
Human Services Department Chair: Bridgette Agpaoa Ryder - bagpaoaryder@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
HD299 - Independent Study
General Information
Independent observation, analysis and reporting of a selected problem in Human
Development.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission.
HUMDV93 - College Readiness
General Information
Department of Corrections class designed to equip offenders with the skills
needed to make a successful transition from prison to college.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
High school Diploma
Prerequisite: High School Equivalency or Permission from Instructor.

@@@PAGE 304@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 305@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Human Services
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Human Services
Catalog Description
The Associate in Applied Science in Human Services prepares students for careers
in social services, behavioral health, addiction recovery, education, and community
settings. The program emphasizes the knowledge and practical skills needed to
support individuals, families, and communities in meeting their physical, emotional,
and mental health needs.
Through a competency-based curriculum, students explore human behavior,
systemic issues, and effective strategies for service delivery and client support. The
program also emphasizes ethical practice, communication, and cultural
responsiveness.
The Associate of Applied Science (AAS) in Human Services is designed around two
stackable certificates—Case Aide Certificate and Substance Use Disorder
Professional Education Certificate—allowing students to enter the workforce with
progressive credentials while continuing their education.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 HSTHSAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Students wishing to apply college credit older than 10 years should
consult with the Program Chair to ensure it meets the Washington
State Department of Health requirements (WAC 246-811-030).
• All Human Services (HSP) courses must be completed with a grade
of C or higher to count towards degree completion.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Genderal Education Requirement (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
---RIGHT---
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
• ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
• MATH&107 - Math in Society
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Behavioral Sciences (10 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
Case Aide Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
• HSP103 - Therapeutic Approaches and Techniques
• HSP112 - Human Services Coordination Best Practices
Substance Use Disorder Professional Education Certificate (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP107 - Behavioral Health and Wellness
• HSP113 - Advanced Helping Strategies
• HSP117 - Ethics and Professional Development
• HSP121 - Survey of Addictions and Pharmacology
• HSP126 - Cultural Competencies for Human Services
• HSP291 - Supervised HSP Internship I
Core Requirements (20 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (10 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP292 - Supervised HSP Internship II
• HSP293 - Supervised HSP Internship III

@@@PAGE 306@@@
---LEFT---
Specialty Courses (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Human Services Specialty Courses
Courses must be completed with a minimum grade of C or higher.
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Human Services Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Case Aide Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Case Aide Certificate
Catalog Description
The Case Aide Certificate is designed to prepare students for entry-level
employment opportunities with a wide variety of human service agencies.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
15 HSTCAC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
• HSP103 - Therapeutic Approaches and Techniques
• HSP112 - Human Services Coordination Best Practices
Program Map
Case Aid Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 307@@@
---LEFT---
Substance Use Disorder Professional Education
Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Substance Use Disorder Professional Education Certificate
Catalog Description
The Substance Use Disorder Professional Education Certificate meets the 23
educational competencies required by the Washington State Department of
Health (WAC 246-811-030) for Substance Use Disorder Professional education
course topics. The SUDP Education Certificate includes 45 quarter credits per
required education topics listed in (WAC 246-811-030)
NOTE: Traditional Substance Use Disorder Professional (SUDP) education
requirements in Washington require the completion of an Associate’s degree
(minimum) in human services or a related field or a total of 90 quarter credits from
an approved school.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
45 HSTHSC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• 30 of the 45 credits for this certificate must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7
Case Aid Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
• HSP103 - Therapeutic Approaches and Techniques
• HSP112 - Human Services Coordination Best Practices
Core Requirements (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP107 - Behavioral Health and Wellness
• HSP113 - Advanced Helping Strategies
---RIGHT---
• HSP117 - Ethics and Professional Development
• HSP121 - Survey of Addictions and Pharmacology
• HSP126 - Cultural Competencies for Human Services
Practicum
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Human Services Clinical Practicum
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP291 - Supervised HSP Internship I
Students completing the Associate in Applied Science in Human
Services must complete HSP 291.
OR
Speciality Courses
Students can choose a Specialty Course from the list below as an
alternate to HSP 291 if they are not planning to complete the Associate
of Applied Science in Human Services.
Complete at least 1 courses in the following course sets:
• Human Services Specialty Courses
Program Map
Substance Use Disorder Professional Education Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 308@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
General Information
This course provides an overview of the history, philosophy, and current
interdisciplinary perspectives of Human Services. This course examines the roles
of Human Service system and professional identity development. This course
surveys professional pathways, types of Human Service programs.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational topics:
Referral and use of community resources (3.i)
Developmental psychology (3.d)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the English Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement.
---RIGHT---
HSP103 - Therapeutic Approaches and Techniques
General Information
This course examines principles, concepts, and processes related to counseling and
interviewing. The roles and functions of the helping professional are examined.
Counseling and interviewing skills are demonstrated and practiced in class.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational topics:
Substance abuse and addiction treatment methods (c)
Individual counseling (k)
Per WAC 246-811-077, the course content partially meets the educational
requirements of topics:
Individual group, including family addiction counseling (f)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
or concurrent enrollment.

@@@PAGE 309@@@
---LEFT---
HSP107 - Behavioral Health and Wellness
General Information
This course explores professional Behavioral Health and wellness theories and
strategies. Prevention and intervention strategies that promote Behavioral Health
and wellness are examined.
Per WAC 246-811-030 the course content meets the educational topics:
HIV/AIDS brief risk intervention for individuals with a substance use disorder (3.g)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
or concurrent enrollment.
---RIGHT---
HSP112 - Human Services Coordination Best Practices
General Information
This course is a survey of service coordination skills for Human Services including
Substance Use Disorder programs. Students will implement essential functions of
service coordination – intake processes, screening, assessment, service/treatment
planning, service notes, referral, crisis intervention, supervision, consultation, and
discharge planning.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Substance abuse and addiction treatment methods(c)
Understanding addiction placement, continuing care, and discharge criteria,
including American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) criteria (d)
Substance use disorder clinical evaluation (screening and referral to include
comorbidity) (f)
Substance use disorder treatment planning (h)
Referral and use of community resources (i)
Service coordination (implementing the treatment plan, consulting, continuing
assessment and treatment planning) (j)
Documentation, to include, screening, intake, assessment, treatment plan, clinical
reports, clinical progress notes, discharge summaries, and other client related data
(q)
Substance use disorder confidentiality (r)
Adolescent substance use disorder assessment and treatment (u)
Substance use disorder case management (v)
Substance use disorder rules and regulation (w)
Per WAC 246-811-077, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
American Society of Addiction Management (ASAM) criteria (e)
Substance use disorder law and ethics(g)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
or concurrent enrollment.

@@@PAGE 310@@@
---LEFT---
HSP113 - Advanced Helping Strategies
General Information
This course explores the facilitation skills of treatment groups, serving youth,
adults, and families, and facilitating community education. This course focuses on
effective group skills used in Human Services, and Substance Use Disorder
programs.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Group counseling(l)
Substance use disorder counseling for families, couples and significant others (m)
Client, family and community education (n)
Developmental psychology (o)
Psychopathology/abnormal psychology (p)
Per WAC 246-811-077, the course content partially meets the educational
requirements of topics:
Individual group, including family addiction counseling (f)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
---RIGHT---
HSP117 - Ethics and Professional Development
General Information
This course will examine professional competencies, ethical standards, laws, and
regulations in Human Services and Substance Use Disorder fields. Students
develop critical thinking and leadership skills in preparation for a career in Human
Services or Substance Use Disorder fields.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Professional and ethical responsibilities (s)
Substance use disorder rules and regulations (w)
Per WAC 246-811-077, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Substance use disorder law and ethics (g)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services

@@@PAGE 311@@@
---LEFT---
HSP121 - Survey of Addictions and Pharmacology
General Information
This course is an introduction to the physiological, psychological, and social
impacts of substance use and Substance Use Disorder. Aspects of substance and
behavioral addictions, pharmacological actions, relapse, and relapse prevention
will be examined. Evidenced-based treatment methods as well as relapse
prevention strategies will be explained. The impacts of Substance Use disorder
across the lifespan are examined. Co-Occurrence of Substance Use Disorder and a
survey of psychopathology will be discussed.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Understanding addiction (a)
Pharmacological actions of alcohol and other drugs (b)
Substance abuse and addiction treatment methods (c)
Psychopathology/abnormal psychology (p)
Relapse prevention (t)
Adolescent substance use disorder assessment and treatment (u)
Per WAC 246-811-077, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Survey of addiction (a)
Treatment of addiction (b)
Pharmacology (c)
Physiology of addiction (d)
American Society of Addiction Management (ASAM) criteria (e)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
---RIGHT---
HSP126 - Cultural Competencies for Human Services
General Information
This is an online course that will examine the elements that create differences
within society. The primary goal of this course is to expose learners to a variety of
cultural ideas, promote tolerance for differences, and assistant in learning cultural
competence when working with diverse populations. Culture, ethnicity, lifestyles,
religion, disabilities, age, and gender will be explored to increase awareness of
cultural biases and related concerns.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
HSP217 - Advocacy in Human Services
General Information
This course will explore the distinct components of advocacy in the helping
professions. Topics to be covered will be: how to identify and challenge oppressive
practices, policies, and mindsets; how to defend clients' rights; and how to
overcome barriers that prevent clients from having their needs met.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services

@@@PAGE 312@@@
---LEFT---
HSP218 - Trauma Informed Care
General Information
This course will explore the definitions of trauma; oppression as a catalyst for
trauma; inter-generational, community, and historical trauma; the many ways in
which humans express the effects of their traumatic experiences; and what to do to
help people heal. In addition, students will identify vicarious/secondary trauma in
the helping professions and examine self-care practices to mitigate the effects of
exposure to other peoples trauma experiences.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
HSP224 - Dynamics of Family Violence
General Information
This course explores the history, philosophy and present status of violence in the
family; examines cultural and social perspectives regarding violence across the life
span including child mistreatment, sexual abuse, and elder maltreatment; and
exposure to service delivery systems specific to family violence.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
---RIGHT---
HSP230 - Co-occurring Disorders Assessment and
Treatment
General Information
This course is an overview of psychopathology and Co-Occurring Substance Use
Disorders in Human Services and Substance Use Disorder fields. Common mental
disorders are examined across the lifespan. Screening, Assessment, and Treatment
Strategies for individuals with Co-Occurring Disorders will be employed.
Evidence-based treatment practices, Suicide Risk Assessment, and suicide
prevention safety planning skills will be practiced.
Per WAC 246-811-030, the course content meets the educational requirements of
topics:
Substance use disorder clinical evaluation (screening and referral to include
comorbidity) (f)
Psychopathology/abnormal psychology (p)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
HSP241 - Working with Youth and Families
General Information
This course explores the theory of social learning and application to the
development with appropriate social skills. Part of the course learning will occur
through the actual experiences of working with children, youth, and families.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services

@@@PAGE 313@@@
---LEFT---
HSP262 - Loss and Grief through the Lifespan
General Information
This course focuses on losses ranging from everyday setbacks to stigmatizing
issues. The grief process will be examined from a variety of approaches including
cultural, religious, and developmental perspectives. End of life concerns will also be
covered.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
HSP265 - Aging and Adult Services
General Information
This course reviews the changing needs of people as they progress through the
later stages of life. Social interactions, cognitive abilities, physical changes, health
issues, psychological adaptations, recreational options, and other life domain
concerns will be explored to prepare the students wishing to work with an aging
population.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
---RIGHT---
HSP291 - Supervised HSP Internship I
General Information
This course is the first of supervised clinical practicum experiences and requires
116 hours of work during the quarter in a community setting. The focus of
HSP-291 is on integrating oneself into the workplace. The weekly seminars offer
helpful suggestions and discussions on how to establish a good work relationship,
and strengthen communication skills.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• HSP100 - Introduction To Human Services
• HSP112 - Human Services Coordination Best Practices
• HSP117 - Ethics and Professional Development
HSP117 Ethics and Professional Development can be taken concurrently.
HSP292 - Supervised HSP Internship II
General Information
This course requires 116 hours of supervised work experience. The focus of the
HSP 292 weekly seminars shifts to understanding integration into the professional
role within the Human Services field. Students will examine the organization of
agencies and other pertinent professional issues related to student's experiences.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP291 - Supervised HSP Internship I

@@@PAGE 314@@@
---LEFT---
HSP293 - Supervised HSP Internship III
General Information
This final clinical practicum experience again requires 116 hours of supervised
work. The focus on HSP 293 is on integration of field experience with classroom
learning to form a personal theory of helping. Weekly seminars will alternate
between discussing issues that arise from the field and refining helping strategies
as well as helping students to synthesize theories and techniques into a working
model.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Human Services Program
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• HSP292 - Supervised HSP Internship II
Humanities Department
Humanities Department Chair: Steve Johns - sjohns@tacomacc.edu
Courses
HUM&101 - Introduction to Humanities
General Information
An introduction to the humanities through investigation of current cultural events
offered by local communities. Study of the arts - painting, sculpture, architecture,
drama, film, music and dance - will be enhanced by attending performances and
on-location field trips to sites in the community when possible. Students will
become familiar with terminology of the arts and with community performance/
demonstrations of these same arts when possible. When offered online, this course
may have a universal rather than local focus. (Multicultural & Writing-Intensive
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
---RIGHT---
HUM&116 - Humanities I
General Information
An introduction to the global humanities through the study of six major art forms:
literature, drama, music, painting, sculpture, and architecture from the ancient
world to 1400. The course will focus on connecting ideas and beliefs with their
expressions.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)

@@@PAGE 315@@@
---LEFT---
HUM&117 - Humanities II
General Information
An introduction to the global humanities through the study of six major art forms:
literature, drama, music, painting, sculpture, and architecture from 1400 to 1800.
The course will focus on examining the principles and values expressed through the
various art forms of specific cultures.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
HUM&118 - Humanities III
General Information
An introduction to the global humanities through the study of seven major art
forms: literature, drama, music, film, painting, sculpture, and architecture from
1800 to the present. The course will focus on examining the principles and values
expressed through the various art forms of specific cultures.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
HUM110 - Introduction to Pacific Rim Cultures
General Information
A general introduction to a Pacific Rim culture emphasizing history, language,
literature, arts, politics, economy, and society.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Courses
Prerequisite: ENGL/ 095 with a minimum grade of C or equivalent
Recommended Preparation: ENGL& 101 with a minimum grade of C or LS
101 with a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
HUM120 - The American Multicultural Arts Experience
General Information
An introduction to the unique contributions of American art, theater, dance,
literature, and/or music by various American ethnic cultures.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
HUM130 - Introduction to Film
General Information
Study in motion picture techniques and the development of cinema as an art form.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
HUM179 - Themes or Topics in Humanities (Revolving
Topics)
General Information
A study of a theme or topic through its expressions, notably literature, drama,
music, film, painting, sculpture and architecture. Various themes or topics will be
studied from quarter to quarter. May be taken twice as themes and topics are
different each offering.
Components Credits
Lecture 5

@@@PAGE 316@@@
---LEFT---
HUM285 - The City
General Information
An in-depth study covering history, philosophy, religion, art, architecture and
literature of a culturally significant city. A different city, time, and place will be
studied each quarter Humanities 285 is offered.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Library Science/English
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• LS101 - Introduction to Research
OR ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Information Technology Department
For more information on our Information Systems and Technology department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/bpt/information-systems/
index
Department email: IsPrograms@tacomacc.edu
Department Chair: Sergio Hernanadez - shernandez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 317@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 318@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Networking and
Cybersecurity
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Networking and Cybersecurity
Catalog Description
The Associate in Applied Science (AAS) in Networking and Cybersecurity prepares
students for entry-level careers in network administration, technical support,
database management, and cybersecurity. The curriculum combines technical core
courses that emphasize hands-on experience with systems, data management,
networking, and security principles, alongside non-technical core courses that
develop essential business, project management, and communication skills.
Advanced coursework includes training in database administration, Windows and
Linux server environments, network infrastructure, routing protocols,
cybersecurity practices, and virtualization technologies.
Graduates will be well-prepared to pursue industry-recognized certifications from
Microsoft, CompTIA, Cisco, and Dell/EMC, or to continue their education in TCC's
Bachelor of Applied Science in Advanced Networking and Data Security.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
95-105 CSTNCAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 95 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Help Desk Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
• IT110 - Operating Systems I
• IT247 - IT Project Management
Technical Support Certificate (20 credits)
Type
---RIGHT---
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT210 - Operating Systems II
• IT211 - Operating Systems III
• IT260 - Client/Server Technology - LANs
• IT261 - Administration of Networks
General Education Requirements (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Advising Note:
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll concurrently
in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for Reading and Writing.
Mathematics Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MATH&107 - Math in Society
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Advising Note:
Students completing MATH&146 who are looking to strengthen their skill
base with pre-requisite topics are encouraged to enroll concurrently in
MATH46 Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Communication Studies Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• CMST&102 - Introduction to Mass Media
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&230 - Small Group Communication
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Networking and Cybersecurity Core Requirements (45 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (45 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BUS164 - Leadership and Human Relations
• IT201 - Introduction to Programming
• IT246 - Database Implementation
• IT249 - Database Programming
• IT270 - Service and Support Fundamentals
• IT271 - Internetworking
• IT275 - Security Assessment & Remediation
• IT278 - Incident Response & Intrusion Analysis
• IT280 - Information Technology Capstone
Optional - Internship or Independent Study (1-10 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement

@@@PAGE 319@@@
---LEFT---
Optional Networking & Cybersecurity Courses
Complete ANY of the following Courses:
• IT290 - Work Internship
• IT299 - Independent Study & Special Projects
Program Map
Associate in Applied Sciences in Networking & Cyber Security Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Bachelor of Applied Science in Advanced Networking and
Data Security
Overview
Full Credential Title
Bachelor of Applied Science in Advanced Networking and Data Security
Catalog Description
The Bachelor of Applied Science in Advanced Networking and Data Security is
designed to prepare students for leadership roles in the information technology
field. This program emphasizes both technical proficiency and essential soft skills,
equipping graduates to become well-rounded IT professionals capable of thriving
in dynamic, team-oriented environments.
Grounded in ethical principles, the curriculum integrates advanced training in
cloud computing, cybersecurity and digital forensics, network infrastructure, and
database management. Students gain hands-on experience configuring and
maintaining current and emerging technologies for diverse business and
government applications.
Through a comprehensive, interdisciplinary approach, the program fosters critical
thinking, effective communication, and collaborative problem-solving. Graduates
are prepared to pursue industry-recognized certifications and meet the evolving
demands of the IT workforce with a competitive edge and a versatile skill set.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
180 SNLINBAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Additional Comments:
Students are eligible to apply for entry into the ITN-IST BAS program by
meeting one of the following.
• Associate Degree in Networking and Cybersecurity, from an
regionally accredited institution with a cumulative GPA of 2.5
and a minimum of 2.0 in all applicable college courses
• Associate Degree in any field from an regionally accredited
institution with a cumulative GPA of 2.5 and a minimum of 2.0 in
all applicable college courses AND
◦ A+ certificate or equivalent
◦ Network + certification or equivalent
• At least 90 college level credits from an regionally accredited
institution with a cumulative GPA of 2.5 and a minimum of 2.0 in
all applicable college courses AND
◦ A+ certificate or equivalent
◦ Network + certification or equivalent
Please Note: While there is no formal time limit on when the associate
degree was completed, the IT industry evolves rapidly. If your coursework
was completed more than five years ago and you lack recent industry

@@@PAGE 320@@@
---LEFT---
experience, you may benefit from retaking select associate-level courses or
engaging in self-study to ensure your knowledge aligns with current industry
standards.
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 180 credits in courses numbered 100 or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ TCC’s bachelor’s degree programs follow a 2+2
model, meaning students must complete an
associate degree—or a minimum of 90 transferable
credits—prior to admission into the bachelor’s
program. Therefore, students enrolled in these
programs are required to complete at least 25% of
the final 90 credits at TCC to meet residency
requirements.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be
considered for equivalency. TCC may also accept
transfer credits for professional/technical programs
if the credits are from an institution with a related
program accreditation. For more information, visit
Transfer Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in
Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that
is applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found
here or by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
General Education Requirements (40 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skils (10 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
Advising Note:
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll concurrently
in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for Reading and Writing.
This course may be applied as a college-level elective towards degree
requirements.
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 Credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• BUS256 - Statistical Analysis
• MATH&107 - Math in Society
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
---RIGHT---
Advising Note:
Students completing MATH&146 who are looking to strengthen their skill
base with pre-requisite topics are encouraged to enroll concurrently in
MATH46 Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Social Science (5 Credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
Recommended Courses:
BUS&201 Business Law - Business Law
POLS&202 United States Government - American Government
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
SOC&201 Social Problems - Social Problems
SOC262 Race and Ethnic Relations - Race and Ethnic Relations
Natural Sciences (10 Credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• GEOG210 - Maps, GIS and the Environment
• ENVS&101 - Introduction to Environmental Science
Distribution Electives (10 Credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
Advising Note:
No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to satisfy
degree requirements.
Core Requirements (65 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter - Fall (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT301 - Scripting and Programming for Network
Administration
• IT302 - Emerging Communication Technology
• IT305 - Remote and Virtualized Platforms
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
Second Quarter - Winter (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CMST320 - Professional and Organizational Communication
• IT321 - Advanced Information and Data Security
Third Quarter - Spring (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT322 - Forensics I
• IT361 - Cloud Computing
• PHIL320 - Ethical Decision Making
Fourth Quarter - Fall (5 credits)

@@@PAGE 321@@@
---LEFT---
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT461 - Advanced Routing and Switching
Fifth Quarter - Winter (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT421 - Cyber Operations
• IT441 - Data Science and Big Data Analytics
Sixth Quarter - Spring (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT418 - Advanced Technology Integration
• IT481 - Information Systems Capstone
Electives (75 Credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete additional elective courses numbered 100 or above as needed to
fulfill the 180 credit requirement for the degree. Elective coursework may
include applicable credits earned through an associate degree.
Program Map
Bachelor of Applied Science in Advanced Networking and Data Security Program
Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.
---RIGHT---
Help Desk Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Help Desk Certificate
Catalog Description
The Help Desk Certificate prepares students to perform fundamental PC support
tasks and to hold entry-level jobs as help desk technicians. Students are
encouraged to take the A+ certification exam upon certificate completion.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
15 CSSHDC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
• IT110 - Operating Systems I
• IT247 - IT Project Management
Program Map
Help Desk Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 322@@@
---LEFT---
Technical Support Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Technical Support Certificate
Catalog Description
The Technical Support Certificate program builds upon foundational PC support
and networking concepts, providing students with the opportunity to develop
advanced skills in network configuration, diagnostics, and administration.
Graduates are prepared to take the Network+ certification exam. Students must
complete the Help Desk Certificate or have equivalent work experience as
determined by the program chair before completing this certificate.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
35 CSSTSC20 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Help Desk Certificate (15 credits)
Type
Prerequisite
Core Requirements
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
• IT110 - Operating Systems I
• IT247 - IT Project Management
Core Requirements (20 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT210 - Operating Systems II
• IT211 - Operating Systems III
• IT260 - Client/Server Technology - LANs
• IT261 - Administration of Networks
---RIGHT---
Program Map
Technical Support Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 323@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
General Information
This course provides concepts and hands-on experience in understanding and
supporting a PC-compatible microcomputer. Topics include microprocessors,
system architecture, system boards, expansion cards, memory, input/output
devices, and peripherals. The student learns how to build, configure, and
troubleshoot a personal computer, and install its operating system. The objectives
of the course are based on those of the A+ Hardware Core Certification Exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Untitled Requirement
Type
Corequisite
IT Course
Enroll in the following Courses:
• IT110 - Operating Systems I
IT110 - Operating Systems I
General Information
The student is introduced to operating systems used on desktop microcomputers.
The course covers installation and configuration, memory and storage
management, batch and script files, device drivers, troubleshooting and
maintenance tools, and virus protection. Emphasis is on current Windows
operating systems. The objectives of the course are based on those of the A+
Operating System (OS) Technologies Certification Exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
IT Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
---RIGHT---
IT201 - Introduction to Programming
General Information
An introduction to programming and programming concepts. Students will use
process mapping, flowcharting, pseudocode, and critical thinking skills to analyze
various types of problems as preliminary design tools, and then will design, code,
test, and debug programs using a programming language.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer Science
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CS120 - Computer Science Principles
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
• IT110 - Operating Systems I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in IT 102
IT210 - Operating Systems II
General Information
This course extends the skills learned in IT-110 to more advanced desktop
operating systems. Installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting are stressed.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Prerequisite: IT-102 AND IT-110 a grade of 'C' or higher, or Instructor
Permission.

@@@PAGE 324@@@
---LEFT---
IT211 - Operating Systems III
General Information
Provides hands-on experience in installation, configuration and administration of
the UNIX/Linux operating system in a networked environment.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Prerequisite: IT 102 with a minimum grade of C AND IT 110 with a
minimum grade of C or Program Chair Permission.
IT246 - Database Implementation
General Information
Students will learn to implement a SQL database for business needs. Students will
use a graphical user interface and structured query language to implement
databases and reporting solutions. Formerly IT 245 and 248 combined.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Business
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU102 - Word I
OR CU103 - Excel I
or MOS Certificate
---RIGHT---
IT247 - IT Project Management
General Information
Project Management for IT professionals from a team member perspective.
Students will learn the standards and techniques used in initiating, planning,
developing, documenting and completing an IT project from a given scenario.
Students may learn additional IT skills as part of the project preparation.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Permission Required
Program Chair Permission Required
Word & Excel
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
or equivalent MOS Certification can be used

@@@PAGE 325@@@
---LEFT---
IT249 - Database Programming
General Information
The Database Programming course is focused on different aspects of integration of
applications with database design and development. Students hone their technical
skills by learning how to analyze, design, and develop database systems. This
course is designed to further develop programming proficiency. Emphasis is on
data definition, data manipulation, and data control statements including database
cursors, triggers, procedures, and functions. Students will be required to learn and
develop skills using the developer tools, Forms Builder and Reports Builder in this
course for report generation and publication. Upon completion, students should be
able to write programs which create, update, and produce reports.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT246 - Database Implementation
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Computer User
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• CU210 - Access II
---RIGHT---
IT260 - Client/Server Technology - LANs
General Information
This course introduces the student to the concepts of data communication in a
Local Area Network (LAN) environment. It includes training in the methods and
protocols used to allow networked computer systems to communicate in local
environments. Topics include the OSI Communication Model, transmission media,
protocol stacks especially TCP/IP, simple internetworking, and LAN services.
Course objectives are based on those of the Network + and the retired Microsoft
Network Essentials certification exams.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
AND IT110 - Operating Systems I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Concurrent Enrollment Requirement
Type
Corequisite
Concurrent Enrollment
Enroll in the following Courses:
• IT261 - Administration of Networks

@@@PAGE 326@@@
---LEFT---
IT261 - Administration of Networks
General Information
The student is introduced to networking and to a detailed study of network
administration techniques. This is an applied course in the concepts of local area
networks (LANs). The student focuses on configuration of file and print services.
Methods and tools for designing, implementing, and maintaining a secure,
expandable local area network environments are studied. Microsoft Windows
2003 Server is used as the platform for this course.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
AND IT110 - Operating Systems I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Concurrent Enrollment Requirement
Type
Corequisite
Concurrent Enrollment
Enroll in the following Courses:
• IT260 - Client/Server Technology - LANs
---RIGHT---
IT270 - Service and Support Fundamentals
General Information
This course is an introduction to the methodologies and tools for personal
computer and Local Area Network (LAN) troubleshooting from a proactive
viewpoint. The student studies the methods to identify and repair the most likely
causes of network faults caused by user, hardware, and software problems.
Disaster Plans, including a Backup Plan, are developed. Quality customer service,
journaling and documentation are emphasized. Configuration management and
patch/service release installation is learned. Server performance monitoring is
discussed.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Prerequisite: IT 260 with a minimum grade of C AND IT 261 with a
minimum grade of C
IT271 - Internetworking
General Information
The skills learned in IT 270 are extended to applications on wide-area networks.
Equipment, such as client computers, servers, bridges, hubs, switches, routers, and
DSU/CSU units, are installed and configured. While the course is not specific to one
vendor, many objectives parallel those of the Cisco Certified Network Associate
(CCNA) Certification.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT261 - Administration of Networks

@@@PAGE 327@@@
---LEFT---
IT275 - Security Assessment & Remediation
General Information
This course is a continuation of study in Network Security with added emphasis on
security assessment, risks and remediation options for securing networks.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• IT260 - Client/Server Technology - LANs
• IT261 - Administration of Networks
IT278 - Incident Response & Intrusion Analysis
General Information
This course presents network defense in depth for enterprise networks, attack
methods, intrusion analysis and detection.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT275 - Security Assessment & Remediation
---RIGHT---
IT280 - Information Technology Capstone
General Information
This is a capstone course for the Network and Convergence Technologies program.
Students will demostrate a complete foundation skill set by using the knowledge
and skills acquired in previous course work to implement a complete and secure
network using project management, business analysis, budget development,
presentation, and technical knowledge and skills.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT270 - Service and Support Fundamentals
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
IT290 - Work Internship
General Information
During one quarter of the sophomore year, students can receive college credits for
hands-on computer related work experience and training in a private or public
sector organization.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required
Program Chair permission.

@@@PAGE 328@@@
---LEFT---
IT299 - Independent Study & Special Projects
General Information
Study on an individual basis
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required
Program Chair permission.
IT301 - Scripting and Programming for Network
Administration
General Information
Provides in-depth view of current and future mainstream features of network
scripts. Emphasis on the issues of multi-platform networks, including the
challenges and items that must be maintained on a regular basis. Introduces
students to scripting methods, standard algorithms and scripting languages. The
two primary platforms will be UNIX/Linux and Windows. Security issues, server
load balancing and cloud environments.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
---RIGHT---
IT302 - Emerging Communication Technology
General Information
Provides an analysis of emerging technology-based communication mediums and
their roles in business. Students will learn about the corporate impact of new
communication technologies and the roles of technology professionals in devising
and maintaining policies for their acceptable use.Corequisite:LS
301Recommended Preparation:IT 102 with a minimum grade of C
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Library Science
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• IT102 - Microcomputer Fundamentals
IT305 - Remote and Virtualized Platforms
General Information
Introduction to remote data storage and access technologies with the inclusion of
virtualized hosts. Forms the knowledge and skillset foundation for IT 361 Cloud
Computing
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT261 - Administration of Networks

@@@PAGE 329@@@
---LEFT---
IT321 - Advanced Information and Data Security
General Information
Provides in-depth view of current and future mainstream features and
implementation of network security, compliance and operation security threats
and vulnerabilities as well as application, data and host security. Help organization
to prepare for security threats and other security related situations that require
swift, effective decisions. This course prepares for the assessment for the
CompTIA Security+ exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT275 - Security Assessment & Remediation
IT322 - Forensics I
General Information
Provides in-depth foundation in data recovery and computer forensics. Covers
legal issues relevant to information security and digital forensics professionals.
Students will learn the proper way to gather and secure evidence, document a
computer crime scene, retrieve lost files, retrieve deleted files and e-mails and
reconstruct data from various computer storage media. Students learn use of
media imaging and data recovery tools. Stresses proper documentation and
procedural guidelines. Students get hands-on experience with some of the popular
commercial and open source digital forensics tools.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT278 - Incident Response & Intrusion Analysis
---RIGHT---
IT361 - Cloud Computing
General Information
Provides in-depth view of current and future mainstream features and
implementation of cloud computing. Security issues, load balancing and cloud
environments. Prepare for contingencies, malfunctions, security threats and other
situations that require swift, effective decisions. This course prepares students for
the CompTIA Cloud+ exam.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
IT399 - Information Systems Independent Study
General Information
A Bachelor's level independent study class that requires instructor permission.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission required
IT418 - Advanced Technology Integration
General Information
This class covers data and communication technologies whose development, and
practical application is either newly emerging or whose potential is largely
unrealized.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT301 - Scripting and Programming for Network
Administration

@@@PAGE 330@@@
---LEFT---
IT421 - Cyber Operations
General Information
This course is designed to prepare the student to apply security analytics, security
intrusion response. The skills learned will help identify and combat advance
persistent threat in an ever changing threat landscape. . This course prepares for
the assessment for the CompTIA CySA+ exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT321 - Advanced Information and Data Security
IT441 - Data Science and Big Data Analytics
General Information
This course focuses on the practice of data analytics, the role of the Data Scientist,
the main phases of the Data Analytics Lifecycle, analyzing and exploring data
statistics for model building and evaluation, the theory and methods of advanced
analytics and statistical modeling, the technology and tools that can be used for
advanced analytics, operationalizing an analytics project, and data visualization
techniques. Successful candidates will achieve an industry data science credential.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT249 - Database Programming
---RIGHT---
IT461 - Advanced Routing and Switching
General Information
This course is designed to prepare network technicians and engineers to navigate
and administer routers and switches, Ethernet LAN switches, VLANs, and WANs. It
also covers the topics such as TCP/IP networking, command-line interfaces, switch
management, configuring switch interface. This course prepares the student to
take the Cisco CCNA exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT271 - Internetworking
IT481 - Information Systems Capstone
General Information
This course focuses on the completion of a capstone project which includes the
assimilated skills and knowledge acquired during previous course of study. The
student will identify a project, certification, or other endeavor preapproved by the
program chair.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Information Technology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• IT461 - Advanced Routing and Switching

@@@PAGE 331@@@
---LEFT---
ITC100 - Introduction to Microcomputers
General Information
Introduction to Microcomputers course is designed to provide a basic computer
skill set and understanding of computer functions. These computing skills may
serve useful in personal computing and as productivity tools for entry level
occupational computer use. Students will learn digital computer concepts,
computer hardware, peripheral devices, Windows operating system,
wordprocessing, electronic spreadsheets, and email applications.
Components Credits
Systems 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
High School Diploma/GED
Prerequisite: High School Completion/ Graduation Equivalency Diploma
AND Basic Keyboarding
Integrated Basic Education Skills Training
For more information on our I-BEST department: I-BEST : Tacoma Community College
Department email: basicskills@tacomacc.edu
I-BEST Department Chair: Rebecca Jayasundara - rjayasundara@tacomacc.edu
Courses
IBEST17 - Excel 1 for AESL
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing,
Listening and Speaking to English as a Second Language IBEST students enrolled in
CU-103
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading scores between 218 AND 235 AND
Acceptance into an IBEST program Corequisite: CU 103 Must be
coenrolled in an IBEST section of CU 103.
---RIGHT---
Department
(tacomacc.edu)
IBEST30 - Career Readiness for ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing to
Adult Basic Education IBEST students registered for BUS 280.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading scores between 221 AND 255.

@@@PAGE 332@@@
---LEFT---
IBEST31 - Career Readiness for AESL
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing,
listening and speaking to English as a Second Language IBEST students registered
for BUS 280.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading scores between 218 AND 235 AND
Acceptance into an IBEST program Corequisite: BUS 280 Must be
coenrolled in the IBEST section of BUS 280.
IBEST32 - Practical Accounting for ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing for
Adult Basic Education IBEST students enrolled in ACCT-101.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading scores between 218 AND 255 AND Math
placement in Math 85 or higher AND Acceptance into an IBEST program
Corequisite: ACCT 101 Must be coenrolled in the IBEST section of ACCT
101 AND MATH 085 must be co-enrolled in Math 85 if assessment not
above 85.
---RIGHT---
IBEST33 - Practical Accounting 1 for AESL
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading, writing and English
language skills for ESL (English as a Second Language) IBEST students enrolled in
ACCT-101.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading scores between 218 AND 235 AND MARC
085 or equivalent (or concurrent enrollment) AND Acceptance into an
IBEST program Corequisite: ACCT 101 Must be coenrolled in the IBEST
section of ACCT 101.
IBEST34 - Customer Service for ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide reading and writing academic support to Adult
Basic Education IBEST students enrolled in the BUS 102 class.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading score between 218 AND 255 AND
Acceptance into an IBEST program Corequisite: BUS 102 Must be
coenrolled in the IBEST section of BUS 102"

@@@PAGE 333@@@
---LEFT---
IBEST40 - Introduction to Early childhood Education for
ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading, and writing, for
Adult Basic Education IBEST students enrolled in EDP-100 and EDP 141.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: A CASAS Reading score between 218 AND 255 AND
Acceptance into the IBEST Child Development Specialist program
Corequisite: ECED& 105 Must be registered for the IBEST supported
section of EDP 100 AND ECE 141 Must be registered for the IBEST
supported section of EDP 141
IBEST41 - Introduction To Early Childhood Education For
AESL
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading, writing, speaking,
and listening for English as a Second Language IBEST students enrolled in EDP-100
and EDP 142.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS Reading AND Listening scores between 218 AND
235 AND Must be accepted into the IBEST Child Development Specialist
program Corequisite: ECED& 105 Must be registered for the IBEST
supported section of EDP 100 AND ECE 142 Must be registered for the
IBEST section of EDP 142.
---RIGHT---
IBEST54 - Professional Document Production ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing for
Adult Basic Education students enrolled in MO 106 as part of the Medical Office
Clerk I-BEST program.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading score of 221-235 AND Acceptance into the
IBEST program AND CU 091 or demonstrate touch typing ability.
Corequisite: MO 106 Must be co-enrolled in MO 106 IBEST section.
IBEST55 - Professional Document Production AESL
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading, writing, speaking
and listening for English as a Second Language students enrolled in MO 106 as part
of the Medical Office Clerk I-BEST program.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading score of 221-235 AND Acceptance into the
I-BEST program. Corequisite: MO 106 Must be co-enrolled in an IBEST
section of MO 106 Recommended Preparation: CU 091 or ability to type
25 WPM. knowledge of Microsoft Word.

@@@PAGE 334@@@
---LEFT---
IBEST58 - Medical Office for ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing for
Adult Basic Educaiton students enrolled in MO-100 and 143 as part of the Medical
Office I-BEST program.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placememnt Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading score of 221-235 AND acceptance into the
I-BEST program AND HIT 130 with a minimum grade of C Corequisite:
MO 110 must be coenrolled in the IBEST supported section of MO 100
AND MO 143 Must be coenrolled in the IBEST supported section of MO
143
IBEST59 - Medical Office for AESL
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading, writing, speaking,
and listening comprehension for students enrolled in MO 100 and MO 143 as part
of the Medical Office I-BEST program.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placemement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS reading score of 221-235 AND acceptance into the
I-Best program AND HIT 130 with a minimum grade of C Corequisite:
MO 110 Must be coenrolled in the IBEST supported section of MO 100
AND MO 143 Must be coenrolled in the IBEST supported Section of MO
143
---RIGHT---
IBEST70 - Medical Terminology for ABE
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing for
basic skills students enrolled in IBEST HIM-130.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: CASAS 221-255 in reading AND listening AND must be
accepted into the IBEST Medical Office Clerk Certificate Program
Corequisite: HIT 130 Must be coenrolled in the IBEST supported section
of HIM 130
IBEST78 - Access for ABE
General Information
This course provides reading and writing support to Adult Basic Education
students enrolled in the IBEST section of CU 110.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Must be accepted into the IBEST program for Medical
Registration AND Admissions Corequisite: CU 110 Must be coenrolled in
the IBEST supported section of CU 110.

@@@PAGE 335@@@
---LEFT---
IBEST79 - Access for AESL
General Information
This class is to provide reading, writing, listening, speaking and English language
support to English as a second Language learners enrolled in the IBEST supported
CU 110 class.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Be accepted into the IBEST program for the Medical
Registration AND Admissions Certificate. Corequisite: CU 110 Be
coenrolled in the IBEST supported section of CU 110.
IBEST88 - Academic Support for Dev. Ed.
General Information
This course is designed to provide academic support in reading and writing,
listening, speaking or math for Developmental Education Students registered for
classes in an IBEST cohort
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Must be accepted into a Dev. Ed. IBEST certificate program
Corequisite: Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST supported class
section
---RIGHT---
IBEST89 - Medical Terminology II for AESL
General Information
The purpose of this class is to provide reading, writing and English language skills
support to second languge learners in the Dev. Ed. IBEST section of Medical
Terminology II (HIM 131).
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Must be accepted into the Dev. Ed. IBEST Medical
Registration AND Admissions Specialist Certificate Program AND HIT
130 with a minimum grade of C Corequisite: HIT 131 Must be co-enrolled
in the Dev. Ed. IBEST supported Modularized 131 class or HIM 135 Must
be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST supported section of HIM 135 or HIM
136 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST supported sectino of HIM
136 or HIM 137 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST supported
section of HIM 137 or HIM 138 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
supported section of HIM 138 or HIM 139 Must be coenrolled in the Dev.
Ed. IBEST supported section of HIM 139.
IBEST97 - I-BEST Academic Support for ABE
General Information
The purpose of this course is to provide contextualized academic support in
reading, writing, speaking, and listening for ABE I-BEST students enrolled in
various college level professional technical and transfer courses.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Must be accepted into an I-BEST program at TCC
Corequisite: Must be coenrolled in an I-BEST supported class section

@@@PAGE 336@@@
---LEFT---
IBEST98 - I-BEST Academic Support for ESL
General Information
The purpose of this course is to provide contextualized academic support in
reading, writing, speaking, and listening for I-BEST students enrolled in various
college level professional technical and transfer courses.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Must be accepted into an I-BEST program Corequisite:
Must be coenrolled in an I-BEST supported class
IBEST99 - I-BEST Student Support
General Information
This independent study course is for variable hours and provides supplemental
instruction for any of the following classes within the I-BEST Medical Office Clerk
developmental education cohort: CU 100, 102, 103, HIM 130, MO 100, MO 106,
MO 143
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Medical Office Clerk Dev. Ed. IBEST
cohort. Corequisite: MO 110 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of MO 100 or CU 100 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of CU 100. or CU 103 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of CU 103 or CU 102 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of CU 102 or MO 143 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of MO 143 or BUS 102 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of BUS 102 or MO 106 Must be coenrolled in the Dev. Ed. IBEST
section of MO 106.
Japanese Department
For more information on our World Language Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/world_languages
World Language Department Chair: Bruno Arzola-Padilla - barzolapadilla@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 337@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
JAPN&121 - Japanese I
General Information
The first year of the beginning Japanese language sequence of 121, 122, and 123.
JAPN&-121 is the first quarter of the sequence. The basic tenets of
communications including reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed
in a dynamic second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology.
Grammar is used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part
in small group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic
materials will be focused on in the class as well as assessment. Students should
expect to be immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
Instructor permission is also sufficient.
---RIGHT---
JAPN&122 - Japanese II
General Information
JAPN&-122 is the second quarter of the first-year language sequence and
continues to build on the skills acquired in JAPN&-121. The basic tenets of
communications including reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed
in a dynamic second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology.
Grammar is used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part
in small group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic
materials will be focused on in the class as well as assessment. Students should
expect to be immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Japanese
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• JAPN&121 - Japanese I
JAPN&123 - Japanese III
General Information
JAPN&-123 is the third quarter of the first-year language sequence and continues
to build on the skills acquired in JAPN&-122. The basic tenets of communications
including reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed in a dynamic
second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology. Grammar is
used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part in small
group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic materials will
be focused on in the class as well as assessment. Students should expect to be
immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum. This course satisfies
the Multicultural distribution requirement. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Japanese
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• JAPN&122 - Japanese II

@@@PAGE 338@@@
---LEFT---
Library Science Department
Library Science Department Chair: Rebekah WIlliams - rwilliams@tacomacc.edu
Courses
LS101 - Introduction to Research
General Information
Meet course-related research needs by learning to identify, find, evaluate,
incorporate, and cite appropriate sources using a range of research tools.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
LS102 - Research for Writing in the Disciplines
General Information
Students concurrently registered in disciplinary courses will meet course-related
research needs by developing strategies to identify, find, evaluate, incorporate, and
cite appropriate sources using a broad range of research tools. Evaluation and use
of sources for specific disciplines will be emphasized.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Logisitics Department
For information on our Business, Paralegal & Technology Career Pathway: Business,
Logistics Department Chair: Ywilliams@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
General Information
This course will help the student to meet course-related research needs by
developing strategies to identify, find, evaluate, incorporate and cite appropriate
sources used in their program of study. Evaluation and use of sources specific to
the student's program of study will be emphasized.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
Acceptance into the BAS program also required
Paralegal, and Technology Pathway : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 339@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
LOG102 - Transportation & Distribution
General Information
This course will introduce students to the role and importance of transportation
and distribution of cargo in the nation's economy and to overview the operations of
each mode of the transportation industry. Students will be introduced to the
carrier cost structures and operating characteristics, and public policy as it relates
to transportation regulations. Practical aspects of transportation and distribution
such as planning, routing, scheduling and loading cargo, and adhering to regulatory,
safety, security and adminsitrative requirements will be stressed.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Prerequisite: ENGL/ 095 with a minimum grade of C or Assessment at
college level reading AND writing
---RIGHT---
LOG104 - Applied Warehousing and Inventory
Management
General Information
This course introduces students to practical concepts of warehousing and
inventory management including the types of equipment, storage processes and
systems, the technologies used to identify and track units in a warehouse, and the
regulations designed to ensure safety in warehouse operations. Students will gain a
better understanding of warehouse processes through field trips and/or applied
lab exercise. Includes a series of applied hands-on exercises. This version of
Warehousing & Inventory Management is required for students in the Business
AAS degree.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
Additional Comments:
Assessment at college level reading/writing is also sufficient
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Logistics
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• LOG102 - Transportation & Distribution
LOG108 - International Trade and Logistics Management
General Information
This course introduces students to import and export management and ties this to
the requisite logistics management issues, including dealing and communicating
with customers, suppliers, freight companies, banks, and government agencies.
Students will learn about necessary policies, processes, documentation and
compliance procedures, and will study a variety of viable strategies for
international market entry.
Components Credits
Lecture 3

@@@PAGE 340@@@
---LEFT---
LOG115 - Logistics Security and Risk Management
General Information
This course overviews logistics security threats and risks and the countermeasures
that can be used to secure fixed assets and assets in transit. Students will become
familiar with applicable domestic and international standards, laws, and
regulations as well as the technologies that are used in ensuring that the supply
chain is safe.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Logistics
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• LOG102 - Transportation & Distribution
Mathematics Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/mathematics
Faculty
Jared Abwawo
B.A., Egerton University; M.S. University of Washington
Jonathan Armel
B.A.; Ph.D., University of California, San Diego
Sean Boyd
A.A.S., B.S., M.S.
Gregory Ferencko
B.A., Rutgers University; M.S., Western Washington University
Amber Mozeleski, Chair
B.S., University of North Florida; M.S., University of Washington; M.A., University of
---RIGHT---
Florida

@@@PAGE 341@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 342@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Mathematics Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Mathematics Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts – Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transfer into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Mathematics Specialization is designed for students interested in pursuing a
bachelor’s degree in mathematics or a related field such as statistics, data science,
engineering, economics, or education.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions, having satisfied most or all
lower-division general education requirements. Students planning to transfer out
of state should consult with their intended institution to ensure course
transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 MATHEMATIC
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
---RIGHT---
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Mathematics Specialization Requirements (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
OR ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:

@@@PAGE 343@@@
---LEFT---
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Math Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
---RIGHT---
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Science or Math Course
Math Specialization Core Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Math Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Math Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
• CS142 - Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I
OR ENGR&240 - Engineering Computations
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Mathematics Specialization
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.

@@@PAGE 344@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
MATH&107 - Math in Society
General Information
A general education course investigating quantitative reasoning and its
applications and role in society. Topics may include graph theory, statistics, coding,
game theory, symmetry, and geometric and numerical patterns. Mathematical
theory combined with quantitative skills will be used in applications to a variety of
problems encountered in mathematics and the world. A thematic approach may be
taken in this course.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement. Running Start students must place based on Running Start
policies.
MATH&131 - Math for Elementary Education 1
General Information
A course for prospective teachers focusing on the mathematics underlying modern
elementary school math curricula. Topics include deductive reasoning, set theory,
whole numbers, fractions, decimals and their operations, and proportion and
percentage. Emphasizes deep conceptual understanding, problem solving, and
communication of mathematical ideas.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement tool; or appropriate
placement. Running Start students must place based on Running Start
policies.
---RIGHT---
MATH&132 - Math for Elementary Education 2
General Information
A course for prospective teachers focusing on the mathematics underlying modern
elementary school math curricula. Topics include geometry, measurement,
probability, and statistics. Emphasizes deep conceptual understanding, problem
solving and communication of mathematical ideas.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement tool; or appropriate
placement. Running Start students must place based on Running Start
policies.
MATH&141 - Precalculus I
General Information
In-depth study of the concept of a function, including graphs, transformations,
operations on functions, and inverse functions. General theory of functions is
applied to the study of polynomial, absolute value, radical, rational, exponential,
and logarithmic functions. First course in a two course sequence designed to
prepare students for Calculus. Graphing calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement. Running Start students must place based on Running Start
policies.

@@@PAGE 345@@@
---LEFT---
MATH&142 - Precalculus II
General Information
An introduction to trigonometric functions and their applications. Topics include
unit circle definition of trigonometric functions, graphs, identities, inverse
trigonometric functions, and solving equations and triangles. Second course in a
two course sequence designed to prepare students for Calculus. Graphing
calculators are required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
No Requirements
MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
General Information
Introduction to the basic principles of probability, descriptive statistics, and
inferential statistics. Topics include properties of probability, graphical and tabular
summaries of data, measures of central tendency and variability, probability
distributions, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, and linear regression.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement. Running Start students must place based on Running Start
policies.
---RIGHT---
MATH&148 - Business Calculus
General Information
(For students in business, economics, social sciences and other fields requiring
minimal calculus.) Topics include the derivative, rates of change, maxima and
minima, the integral and applications of integrals. Required: graphing calculator
and knowledge of Excel spreadsheets including graphing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Complete
MATH 147 with a minimum grade of C (or appropriate MATH placement
and department permission); and knowledge of Excel spreadsheet
software including graphing
MATH&151 - Calculus I
General Information
Topics of calculus are presented geometrically, numerically, and symbolically.
MATH& 151 topics include limits, introduction to differentiation (including
derivatives of exponential and logarithmic functions), and applications of the
derivative. Graphing calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MATH&142 - Precalculus II
or appropriate MATH placement and department permission.

@@@PAGE 346@@@
---LEFT---
MATH&152 - Calculus II
General Information
Topics of calculus are presented geometrically, numerically, and symbolically.
MATH& 152 topics include applications of integration, differentiation, and
methods of integration including improper integrals. Graphing calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
or appropriate MATH placement and department permission.
MATH&153 - Calculus III
General Information
Topics of calculus are presented geometrically, numerically, and symbolically.
MATH&-153 topics include sequences, infinite series, Taylor series, Taylor
polynomials, vectors, and functions of several variables. Graphing calculator
required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
or appropriate MATH placement and department permission.
---RIGHT---
MATH&254 - Calculus IV
General Information
Topics of multivariable calculus are presented geometrically, numerically, and
algebraically. Emphasis is on problem-solving and understanding concepts.
Computers and graphing calculators are used as tools to assist the student in
learning to think mathematically. Topics include cylindrical and spherical
coordinates, vector valued functions, functions of several variables, partial
differentiation, gradients, and double and triple integrals and vector calculus,
including Green's and Stokes' theorems. Graphing calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
or appropriate MATH placement and department permission.
MATH40 - Co-requisite for Intermediate Algebra - MATH
095
General Information
This co-requisite class is attached to a MATH 095 course for students who are
seeking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics. Topics to be
covered are those pre-requisite skills necessary to learn the content of MATH 095,
including linear equations, polynomials, factoring, quadratics, and graphs, and skills
for academic success.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Math
Enroll in the following Courses:
• MATH95 - Intermediate Algebra

@@@PAGE 347@@@
---LEFT---
MATH41 - Co-requisite for Pre-Calculus - MATH& 141
General Information
This co-requisite class is attached to a MATH& 141 course for students who are
seeking to strengthen their skill base with prerequisite topics. Topics to be covered
are those prerequisite skills necessary to learn the content of MATH& 141,
including algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, coordinate geometry,
linear and quadratic functions and their graphs, graphing calculators, and skills for
academic success.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Math
Enroll in the following Courses:
• MATH141 - Pre-calculus I (Inactive)
MATH046 - Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146
General Information
This co-requisite class is attached to a MATH& 146 course for students who are
seeking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics. Topics to be
covered are those pre-requisite skills necessary to learn the content of MATH&
146 such as integers, rounding, the relationship between percentages, decimals
and fractions, order of operations, solving one- and two-step equations,
inequalities, exponents, graphing coordinate points and functions, square roots,
scientific notation, interval notation, and skills for academic success.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Math
Enroll in the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
---RIGHT---
MATH75 - Review Arithmetic
General Information
Review of basic mathematics including arithmetic of whole numbers, fractions,
decimals, percentages, ratios, proportions and plane geometry.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or
appropriate placement.
MATH85 - Introduction to Elementary Algebra
General Information
Beginning algebra specifically designed for students with no algebra background.
Topics include introduction to variables and signed numbers, solutions to linear
equations and inequalities, simplification of algebraic expressions, evaluation and
manipulation of formulas, an emphasis on word problems and graphing of linear
equations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Prerequisite: Completion of Math Directed Self Placement Tool or
appropriate placement.

@@@PAGE 348@@@
---LEFT---
MATH90 - Elementary Algebra
General Information
Topics include linear equations, polynomials, factoring, rational expressions, and
graphing. Scientific calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English/Math
Prerequisite: ENGL/ 085 with a minimum grade of C or equivalent AND
MATH 085 with a minimum grade of C or ABE 068 with a minimum grade
of B- or equivalent
MATH95 - Intermediate Algebra
General Information
Topics include introduction to functions; linear, quadratic; exponential and
logarithmic functions and their applications; systems of linear equations and
inequalities and their applications; rational exponents and radicals. Graphing
calculator is required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
MATH95
Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement.
---RIGHT---
MATH147 - College Algebra for Business and Economics
General Information
A precalculus course for business majors. Topics include: polynomials, inequalities,
rational functions, marginal revenue and costs, matrix algebra, systems of
equations, linear programming by graphing and simplex methods, exponential and
logarithmic functions, linear regression, and the time value of money. Required:
graphing calculator and knowledge of Excel spreadsheets including graphing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placemement Testing
Prerequisite: Completion of the Math Directed Self Placement Tool or
appropriate placement. Running Start students must place based on
Running Start policies.
MATH179 - Special Topics in Mathematics
General Information
This course provides mathematics students with the opportunity to study selected
mathematical topics and techniques. Topics and/or techniques covered will
generally be determined by the instructor but may also reflect the expressed need
or interest of students in the mathematics, science or engineering programs.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission

@@@PAGE 349@@@
---LEFT---
MATH220 - Linear Algebra
General Information
Topics include linear systems of equations, matrices, determinants, vectors,
abstract vector spaces, linear transformations, eigenvectors and applications.
Graphing calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Prerequisite: MATH& 153 with a minimum grade of C or (appropriate
MATH placement AND department permission.)
MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
General Information
Introductory Course in ordinary differential equations. Topics includes first- and
second-order differential equations, Laplace transform, power series solutions,
applications and modeling. Graphing calculator required.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Prerequisite: MATH& 153 with a minimum grade of C or (appropriate
MATH placement AND department permission.)
Medical Office Department
For more information on our Medical Office department: Medical Billing Specialist Certificate
Department Email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Medical Office Department Chair: Cjarvis@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
: Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 350@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
MO101 - Healthcare Delivery and Alternate Care
General Information
Students will be introduced to the many types of health care delivery systems in
the United States. Students will identify laws, regulations, standards, initiatives,
and payment systems; policies and procedures applicable to the various health
care organizations. Students will gain an appreciation of the roles and disciplines of
the providers throughout the continuum of health care in the US.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English/Health Information Technology
Prerequisite: ENGL& 101 with a minimum grade of C AND HIT 130 with a
minimum grade of C (may be taken concurrently) or HIT 105 with a
minimum grade of C (may be taken concurrently)
MO110 - Medical Office Procedures
General Information
This class covers customary daily activities of a medical office including
computerized appointment setting, insurance verification and compliance, chart
maintenance, documentation creation, filing, customer service skills,
confidentiality, patient referrals, and being part of the healthcare team.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Medical Office
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MO101 - Healthcare Delivery and Alternate Care
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
MO115 - Medical Scribe
General Information
This course provides students with skills necessary to enter information into a
patient's electronic health record or chart at the direction of a physician or
licensed independent practitioner.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Medical Terminology
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
AND HIT131 - Medical Terminology II
Courses must be completed with a minimum grade of C.
Biology
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&175 - Human Biology w/Lab
OR BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
Courses may be taken concurrently

@@@PAGE 351@@@
---LEFT---
MO131 - Beginning Outpatient Dx Coding
General Information
This course will introduce students to the basic principles of ICD-10-CM
diagnostic coding in the outpatient care setting.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Health Information Technology
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
OR HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
MO143 - Medical Office Professional Development and
Ethics
General Information
This course discusses many of the professional standards and skills needed to
succeed in a healthcare career. Topics include work ethic, teamwork,
communication, cultural competence, personal image, and health and
wellness.Students will prepare to enter the workforce with cover-letter, resume,
and interview practice.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Medical Office
Prerequisite: MO 110 with a minimum grade of C AND MO 159 with a
minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
MO151 - Insurance Claims Processing
General Information
This class will introduce students to major insurance programs, regulations that
affect health insurance, and various requirements of insurance claims processing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Medical Office
Prerequisite: MO 110 with a minimum grade of C AND MO 159 with a
minimum grade of C AND MO 185 with a minimum grade of C (may be
taken concurrently)
MO159 - Beginning Outpatient Px Coding
General Information
This course introduces students to procedural coding for outpatient services in
hospitals,physicians' offices and medical clinics. Emphasis is on ambulatory service
coding and medical necessity.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Medical Office
Prerequisite: MO 101 with a minimum grade of C AND MO 131 with a
minimum grade of C AND HIT 130 with a minimum grade of C or HIT 105
with a minimum grade of C

@@@PAGE 352@@@
---LEFT---
MO185 - Medical Billing Specialist (MBS) Practicum
General Information
This class will include a simulated clinical experience. Students will apply skills and
knowledge acquired in previous courses to medical reimbursement settings.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Medical Office
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MO151 - Insurance Claims Processing
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in MO 151
Music Department
For more information on the Music department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/music/
Music Department Chair: Anne Lyman - alyman@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 353@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 354@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Digital Music Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Digital Music Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Digital Music Specialization offers students the experiences to achieve
competencies in modern recording technology, music production and
performance. Students focus on learning the digital tools needed in the audio/
music profession, and also get experiences in several key areas of the music
profession: songwriting, sound management, and performance.
This specialization prepares students to transfer with junior standing into a
bachelor’s degree program at most Washington State public baccalaureate
institutions. Students planning to transfer to institutions outside Washington
should consult with their intended transfer school to ensure course compatibility
and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some of the courses in this
degree pathway are only offered one quarter per academic year. Some universities
or education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 DIG_MUSIC
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Specialization Requirements (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Foundation Courses (23 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
• MUSC211 - Live Sound Management
• MUSC212 - Contemporary Songwriting
• MUSC213 - Digital Music Performance
• MUSC297 - Music Specialization Capstone
Music Theory Courses (10 credits)
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
• MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
• MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
Music Ensemble Course (2 credits)
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MUSC152 - Chamber Choir I
OR MUSC252 - Chamber Choir II
OR MUSC160 - Orchestra I
OR MUSC260 - Orchestra II
OR MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
OR MUSC261 - Symphonic Band II
OR MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
OR MUSC265 - Jazz Band II
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101

@@@PAGE 355@@@
---LEFT---
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Digital Music Specialization Foundation Course
---RIGHT---
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
AND
Digital Music Specialization Music Theory Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
• MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
• MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
AND
Additional Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Complete 5 credits from a discipline other than Music (MUSC/MUSC&).
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Mathematics Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Electives (25 credits)

@@@PAGE 356@@@
---LEFT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives - Digital Music Specialization Foundation Courses
(15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC211 - Live Sound Management
• MUSC212 - Contemporary Songwriting
• MUSC213 - Digital Music Performance
College-Level Electives (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Digital Music Specialization Music Theory Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
• MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
• MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
AND
Digital Music Specialization Music Ensemble Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• MUSC152 - Chamber Choir I
• MUSC252 - Chamber Choir II
• MUSC160 - Orchestra I
• MUSC260 - Orchestra II
• MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
• MUSC261 - Symphonic Band II
• MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
• MUSC265 - Jazz Band II
AND
Digital Music Specialization Capstone Course (3 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC297 - Music Specialization Capstone
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Digital Music Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
---RIGHT---
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising

@@@PAGE 357@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Music Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Music Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Music Specialization offers a structured, music-centered academic pathway
designed to prepare students for transfer into a Bachelor of Arts in Music,
Bachelor of Music in Music Business, or related fields, including music minors.
Through a cohesive sequence of coursework, students develop a strong foundation
in music theory, performance, and appreciation. In addition to supporting transfer
goals, the specialization provides essential skills and knowledge applicable to
entry-level roles in the music industry.
This specialization prepares students to transfer with junior standing into a
bachelor’s degree program at most Washington State public baccalaureate
institutions. Students planning to transfer to institutions outside Washington
should consult with their intended transfer school to ensure course compatibility
and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Admission to specific
music programs is highly competitive and not guaranteed. Transfer institutions
may require a minimum cumulative GPA, a higher GPA in specific coursework, and
may also conduct auditions or portfolio reviews as part of their admission process.
Students intending to transfer to a baccalaureate Bachelor of Music degree in
performance, composition, theory, history, music education, or music
therapy should consider the Associate in Music DTA/MRP, which is specifically
designed to support transfer to this degree.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 MUSIC
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Music Specialization Requirements (31 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Music Theory Courses (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
• MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
Music Ensemble (6 credits)
Earn at least 6 credits from the following:
• MUSC152 - Chamber Choir I
• MUSC252 - Chamber Choir II
• MUSC160 - Orchestra I
• MUSC260 - Orchestra II
• MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
• MUSC261 - Symphonic Band II
• MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
• MUSC265 - Jazz Band II
Each course may be taken up to 3 times for additional credit.
Music Electives (15 credits)
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• MUSC&105 - Music Appreciation
• MUSC106 - World Music
• MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
• MUSC120 - Music in the Classroom
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
• MUSC211 - Live Sound Management
• MUSC212 - Contemporary Songwriting
• MUSC213 - Digital Music Performance
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
• MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
• MUSC297 - Music Specialization Capstone
College Success (5 credits)
Type

@@@PAGE 358@@@
---LEFT---
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENGL&102 Composition II: Argument and Persuasion - Composition II:
Argument and Persuasion
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural
Communication (Multicultural Course)
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
---RIGHT---
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Recommended Courses:
MATH&107 Math in Society - Math in Society
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics - Introduction to Statistics
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH&146 and MATH46
Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Music Specialization Music Theory Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&141 - Precalculus I
• MATH&142 - Precalculus II
AND
Additional Humanities Course
Select 5 credits from the Humanities distribution course list from a
discipline other than Music (MUSC/MUSC&).
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&100 Survey of Anthropology - Survey of Anthropology
(Multicultural Course)
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology
ANTH&207 Linguistic Anthropology - Linguistic Anthropology
(Multicultural Course)
BUS&101 Introduction to Business - Introduction to Business
EDUC&205 Introduction to Education w/ Field Experience - Introduction
to Education w/ Field Experience
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
(Multicultural Course)
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences .

@@@PAGE 359@@@
---LEFT---
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology (Biological,
Earth, and Physical Sciences)
ASTR&115 Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos - Stars, Galaxies and the
Cosmos (Lab Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
CHEM&110 Chemical Concepts w/lab - Chemical Concepts w/Lab
(Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science (Lab Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
SCI105 Introductory Topics in Natural Science - Introductory Topics in
Natural Science (Lab Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Music Specialization Music Electives Courses
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• MUSC&105 - Music Appreciation
• MUSC106 - World Music
• MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
• MUSC120 - Music in the Classroom
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
• MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Music Specialization Music Ensemble Courses
Earn at least 6 credits from the following:
• MUSC152 - Chamber Choir I
• MUSC252 - Chamber Choir II
• MUSC160 - Orchestra I
• MUSC260 - Orchestra II
• MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
• MUSC261 - Symphonic Band II
• MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
• MUSC265 - Jazz Band II
Each course may be taken up to 3 times for additional credit.
---RIGHT---
AND
Additional College-Level Electives
Complete any 4 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Complete 4 credits of College-Level Electives
No more than three PE activity credits may be applied toward the
degree.
Recommended Courses: Additional Music Ensemble Courses
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Music Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Humanities Distribution to fulfill
up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Recommended Course:
MUSC106 World Music - World Music (Music Specialization, Humanities
Distribution & Multicultural Course)
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Music Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising

@@@PAGE 360@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Music, DTA/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Music DTA/MRP
Catalog Description
The Associate in Music, DTA/MRP is a state-recognized Direct Transfer Agreement
/ Major Related Program (DTA/MRP) designed for students who plan to pursue a
Bachelor of Music degree in performance, composition, theory, history, music
education, or music therapy. The program provides comprehensive preparation in
music theory, performance, and musicianship while fulfilling general education
requirements for transfer at most Washington baccalaureate institutions.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with the transfer institutions to understand how courses in
this degree will transfer.
Admission to specific music programs is highly competitive and not guaranteed.
Transfer institutions may require a minimum cumulative GPA, a higher GPA in
specific coursework, and may also conduct auditions or portfolio reviews as part of
their admission process. Students are strongly encouraged to meet early with both
their TCC advisor and their intended transfer institution to confirm that course
selections align with both graduation requirements at TCC and admission criteria
at the transfer school.
Students not intending to pursue a Bachelor of Music degree should consider the
Associate in Arts, DTA - Music Specialization or the Associate in Arts, DTA - Digital
Music Specialization.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
104 MUSMUAA Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 104 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100
or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there is one exception in this degree:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
---RIGHT---
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural
Communication
ENGL&102 Composition II: Argument and Persuasion - Composition II:
Argument and Persuasion
Quantitative / Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Recommended Course:
MATH&107 Math in Society - Math in Society
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics - Introduction to Statistics
Humanities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skills courses may be
used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Music Theory Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
• MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
AND
Additional Humanities Course
Complete an additional 5 credits of Humanities from a discipline other
than Music.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses

@@@PAGE 361@@@
---LEFT---
Recommended Course:
CMST&210 Interpersonal Communication - Interpersonal
Communication
Social Science Distribution (15 credits)
Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&207 Linguistic Anthropology - Linguistic Anthropology
BUS&101 Introduction to Business - Introduction to Business
EDUC&205 Introduction to Education w/ Field Experience - Introduction
to Education w/ Field Experience
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
Natural Sciences Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two Natural Science
disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences.
• Must include at least one laboratory course.
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH or MATH&
prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences Course or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Additional Comments:
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology
ASTR&115 Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos -
CHEM&110 Chemical Concepts w/lab - Chemical Concepts w/ Lab
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science
SCI105 Introductory Topics in Natural Science - Introductory Topics in
Natural Science
Core Requirements (44 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses (26 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC124 - Class Applied Music: Piano I
• MUSC125 - Class Applied Music: Piano II
---RIGHT---
• MUSC126 - Class Applied Music: Piano III
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
• MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
Music Performance Courses (12 credits)
Earn at least 12 credits from the following:
• MUSC152 - Chamber Choir I
• MUSC160 - Orchestra I
• MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
• MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
• MUSC252 - Chamber Choir II
• MUSC260 - Orchestra II
• MUSC261 - Symphonic Band II
• MUSC265 - Jazz Band II
Each course may be taken up to 3 times for additional credit.
Applied Lessons (6 credits)
Earn at least 6 credits from the following:
• MUSC131 - Applied Lessons Strings 1
• MUSC231 - Applied Lessons Strings 2
• MUSC132 - Applied Lessons Brass 1
• MUSC232 - Applied Lessons Brass 2
• MUSC133 - Applied Lessons Woodwind 1
• MUSC233 - Applied Lessons Woodwind 2
• MUSC134 - Applied Lessons Percussion 1
• MUSC234 - Applied Lessons Percussion 2
• MUSC135 - Applied Lessons Keyboard 1
• MUSC235 - Applied Lessons Keyboard 2
• MUSC136 - Applied Lessons Voice 1
• MUSC236 - Applied Lessons Voice 2
Each course may be taken up to 3 times for additional credit.
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Communication Skills, Humanities or Social Science
requirement. Please consult the list under each distribution area
requirement to identify courses that fulfill both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Music, DTA/MRP Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising

@@@PAGE 362@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
MUSC&105 - Music Appreciation
General Information
(For the general college student; recommended for education majors.) A focus on
listening to music with understanding. A strong emphasis on learning the elements
of music, and how they relate to different styles of music.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
General Information
Introduction to the materials of Western music: notation, rhythm, scales, intervals,
and diatonic triads. Includes elementary ear-training and sight-singing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
General Information
Introduction to the study of Western diatonic harmony. Analysis of 18th and 19th
century harmonic usage; composition exercises stressing correct voice-leading and
chord succession. Further development of aural skills through ear-training and
sight-singing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
---RIGHT---
MUSC&143 - Music Theory III
General Information
Continued study of Western diatonic harmony, and introduction to chromatic
harmony through analysis and composition exercises. Further development of
aural skills through ear-training, and sight-singing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• MUSC&142 - Music Theory II
MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
General Information
The study of chromatic harmony in Western music. Analysis of 18th and 19th
century harmonic usage; continued secondary chord functions and temporary
harmonic modulations. Introduction to large-scale binary and ternary form and
analysis. Further development of aural skills through ear training and sight singing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• MUSC&143 - Music Theory III

@@@PAGE 363@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
General Information
The study of extended chromatic harmony. An analysis of 18th and 19th century
harmonic usage; modulations, extended chromatic chord structures, and mode
mixture. Continued study of binary and ternary forms and analysis. Further
development of aural skills through ear training and sight singing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• MUSC&241 - Music Theory IV
MUSC&243 - Music Theory VI
General Information
Introduction to Western and non-Western post-chromatic theory. Analysis of 20th
and 21st century harmonic usage; modal theory, and atonal theory. Further
development of aural skills through ear training and sight singing.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• MUSC&242 - Music Theory V
MUSC106 - World Music
General Information
An introduction to musics of various cultures of the world. This class explores the
elements of music, music as an expression of human values, music as an identity,
and music as a lifestyle. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
---RIGHT---
MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
General Information
This course introduces students to using computers and digital audio work station
applications to make music. Topics covered include: an applied understanding of
the elements of music, basic audio editing techniques, basic recording techniques,
basic MIDI sequencing, and live performance with digital technology.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
MUSC120 - Music in the Classroom
General Information
Designed to instruct elementary education majors in practices with which they
might implement music into their classrooms. This course will encompass
individual music lesson plans as well as techniques to utilize music within other
classroom subjects. Students will lead songs, lessons, and practice exercises in
teaching music.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
MUSC122 - Class Applied Music: Voice
General Information
Class instruction for the beginning voice student. Development of vocal skills
required for performance in solo singing and ensembles as well as an emphasis on
reading music and an understanding of basic music theory. Formerly MUSC 151
and MUSC 251.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
MUSC124 - Class Applied Music: Piano I
General Information
Class instruction for the beginning piano student. Development of physical skills
required for performance on keyboard instruments as well as an emphasis on
reading music and an understanding of basic music theory. (Performance/skills
course)
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2

@@@PAGE 364@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC125 - Class Applied Music: Piano II
General Information
Second class in a sequence of instruction for the beginning piano student.
Continued development of physical skills required for performance on keyboard
instruments, as well as an an emphasis on reading music and an understanding of
basic music theory. (Performance/skills course)
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC124 - Class Applied Music: Piano I
MUSC126 - Class Applied Music: Piano III
General Information
Third quarter of class instruction for the beginning piano student. Continued
development of physical skills required for performance on keyboard instruments,
as well as an emphasis on reading intermediate/advanced piano music and an
understanding of music theory.(Performance/Skill course)
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC125 - Class Applied Music: Piano II
---RIGHT---
MUSC131 - Applied Lessons Strings 1
General Information
Private instruction on a string instrument (violin, viola, cello, bass, harp, guitar).
One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Enrollment requires instructor approval.
MUSC132 - Applied Lessons Brass 1
General Information
Private instruction on brass instrument (horn, trumpet, trombone, euphonium,
tuba). One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Enrollment requires instructor approval.

@@@PAGE 365@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC133 - Applied Lessons Woodwind 1
General Information
Private instruction on a woodwind instrument (flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, or
saxophone). One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Enrollment requires instructor approval.
MUSC134 - Applied Lessons Percussion 1
General Information
Private instruction on traditional concert percussion instruments. One-on-one
instruction in weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Enrollment requires instructor approval.
---RIGHT---
MUSC135 - Applied Lessons Keyboard 1
General Information
Private instruction on traditional keyboard instruments (piano, organ). One-on-one
instruction in weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Enrollment requires instructor approval.
MUSC136 - Applied Lessons Voice 1
General Information
Private instruction in singing. One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Enrollment requires instructor approval.

@@@PAGE 366@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC151 - TCC Singers I
General Information
Auditioned chorus which rehearses and performs a variety of advanced choral
literature. At least one concert on-campus each quarter. Singers must co-enroll in
MUSC 152/252. May be taken 3 times. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Music
Corequisite: MUSC 152 or MUSC 252
MUSC152 - Chamber Choir I
General Information
Chamber Choir is the primary vocal ensemble here at TacomaCommunity College.
Chamber Choir sings a wide range of music. Known for its versatility and
polishedperformances, this group can sing both on and off campus throughout
quarter. Recommended that studentstake MUSC 122 as a prerequisite, but not
necessary with prior choral experience. May be taken 3 times. Performance/skills
course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 2 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC122 - Class Applied Music: Voice
---RIGHT---
MUSC160 - Orchestra I
General Information
Preparation and performance of orchestra music. Students are expected to attend
weekly rehearsals, and participate in all concerts. The orchestra is a combination of
student and volunteer community musicians. This course is designed for
experienced orchestra musicians, in their first year of participation in ensembles at
TCC. Admission by audition or instructor approval. May be taken 3 times.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Audition or Instructor permission.
MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
General Information
Preparation and performance of concert band music. Students are expected to
attend weekly rehearsals, and participate in at least 1 quarterly concert. This band
is a combination of student and volunteer community musicians. This course is
designed for students in their first year of participation in the TCC symphonic
band. Admission by audition and instructor approval. May be taken three times.
(Performance/skills course.)
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Audition
Prerequisite: Audition only - Instructor Approval Needed

@@@PAGE 367@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
General Information
Preparation and performance of jazz band music. Students are expected to attend
weekly rehearsals, and participate in at least 1 quarterly concert. This band is a
combination of student and volunteer community musicians. This course is
designed for students in their first year of participation in the TCC jazz band.
Admission by audition and instructor approval. (Performance/skills course.)
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Audition
Prerequisite: Audition only - instructor approval needed.
MUSC179 - Special Topics in Music
General Information
Studies of music related topics outside of the normal course offerings. Topics may
include: focused analysis of a music genre, application of different music media, or
a detailed examination of historical music styles.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
---RIGHT---
MUSC211 - Live Sound Management
General Information
Using contemporary technology and tools, students learn to manage audio in
recording and live performance environments. Microphone techniques, signal
routing, cable management, volume management, and basic acoustics, are some
areas of focus. This course is required as part of the AA Digital Music
Specialization.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Digital Music Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
MUSC212 - Contemporary Songwriting
General Information
Students in this course will learn how to compose, record, and distribute music.
Using a variety of digital recording technology, students learn about generating
ideas, organizing creativity, and crafting songs. This course is required as part of
the AA Digital Music Specialization.
Components Credits
Lecture 5

@@@PAGE 368@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC213 - Digital Music Performance
General Information
Using a variety of contemporary technologies, students learn about live music
performance with digital tools. DJ techniques, finger drumming, loop juggling, and
other techniques used as tools for performances in live music venues. Students
learn the organization skills, practice skills, and mindsets needed for a variety of
digital performance scenarios. This course is required as part of the AA Digital
Music Specialization.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Digital Music Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MUSC110 - Introduction to Digital Music
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
Music Theory Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MUSC&141 - Music Theory I
---RIGHT---
MUSC231 - Applied Lessons Strings 2
General Information
Private instruction on string instruments (violin, viola, cello, bass, harp, guitar), at
an intermediate through advanced level. One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC131 - Applied Lessons Strings 1
Additional Comments:
Enrollment requires instructor permission
MUSC232 - Applied Lessons Brass 2
General Information
Private instruction on brass instruments (horn, trumpet, trombone, euphonium,
tuba), at an intermediate through advanced level. One-on-one instruction in
weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC132 - Applied Lessons Brass 1
Additional Comments:
Enrollment requires instructor permission

@@@PAGE 369@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC233 - Applied Lessons Woodwind 2
General Information
Private instruction on woodwind instrument (flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, or
saxophone), at an intermediate through advanced level. One-on-one instruction in
weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC133 - Applied Lessons Woodwind 1
Additional Comments:
Enrollment requires instructor permission
MUSC234 - Applied Lessons Percussion 2
General Information
Private instruction on traditional concert percussion instruments, at an
intermediate through advanced level.. One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC134 - Applied Lessons Percussion 1
Additional Comments:
Enrollment requires instructor permission
---RIGHT---
MUSC235 - Applied Lessons Keyboard 2
General Information
Private instruction on traditional keyboard instruments (piano, organ) at
intermediate or advanced level. One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC135 - Applied Lessons Keyboard 1
Additional Comments:
Enrollment requires instructor permission
MUSC236 - Applied Lessons Voice 2
General Information
Private instruction in singing at an intermediate through advanced level.
One-on-one instruction in weekly lessons. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC136 - Applied Lessons Voice 1
Additional Comments:
Enrollment requires instructor permission

@@@PAGE 370@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC252 - Chamber Choir II
General Information
Chamber Choir is the primary vocal ensemble here at Tacoma Community College.
Chamber Choir sings a wide range of music. Known for its versatility and polished
performances, this group can sing both on and off campus throughout quarter.
Designed for students that have completed 3 quarters of MUSC 152. May be taken
3 times. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 2 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Prerequisite: Instructor permission or three quarters of MUSC 152
MUSC260 - Orchestra II
General Information
Advanced preparation and performance of orchestra music. Students are expected
to attend weekly rehearsals, and participate in at least 1 quarterly concert. This
orchestra is a combination of student and volunteer community musicians. This
course is designed for students in their second year of participation in the TCC
orchestra. Admission by audition or instructor approval. May be taken three times.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture, Lab 2 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC160 - Orchestra I
Additional Comments:
Audition can also suffice for enrollment
---RIGHT---
MUSC261 - Symphonic Band II
General Information
Advanced preparation and performance of concert band music. Students are
expected to attend weekly rehearsals, and participate in at least 1 quarterly
concert. This band is a combination of student and volunteer community musicians.
This course is designed for students in their second year of participation in the TCC
concert band. Admission by audition and instructor approval. May be taken three
times. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC161 - Symphonic Band I
Additional Comments:
Audition can also suffice for enrollment
MUSC265 - Jazz Band II
General Information
Advanced preparation and performance of jazz band music. Students are expected
to attend weekly rehearsals, and participate in at least 1 quarterly concert. This
orchestra is a combination of student and volunteer community musicians. This
course is designed for students in their second year of participation in the TCC jazz
band. Admission by audition or instructor approval. May be taken three times.
Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Music
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• MUSC165 - Jazz Band I
Additional Comments:
Audition can also suffice for enrollment

@@@PAGE 371@@@
---LEFT---
MUSC297 - Music Specialization Capstone
General Information
This course provides the culminating experience(s) for students completing the AA
Music Specialization and AA Digital Music Specialization. Students work closely
with their professor to complete a wide variety of capstone projects in completion
of their degree. Possible capstone projects could include: professional internship,
creation of professional resume, creation of electronic press kit, development of
professional website, creation of digital portfolio, distribution of recordings,
creation of a business plan, and more.
This course is required as part of the AA Digital Music Specialization.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
MUSC299 - Independent Study
General Information
Independent learning activity designed jointly by student and instructor to
improve and/or increase the learner's knowledge and skill in the area of music. This
course is an elective, and transferability is inconsistent. Instructor approval needed
for enrollment. Variable credit course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission.
Nursing Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/healthcare/nursing/
Email: nursing@tacomacc.edu
Program Chair: Beth Hastert bhastert@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 372@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 373@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Nursing, DTA/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Nursing, Direct Transfer Agreement / Major Related Program
Catalog Description
The Associate in Nursing Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA)/Major Related
Program (MRP) program prepares students for careers as Registered Nurses
through progressive, sequenced curriculum. Upon successful completion, students
become eligible to take the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered
Nurses (NCLEX-RN).
This pathway provides a direct route to most Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN)
programs at four-year institutions across Washington State. Students are strongly
encouraged to check with their potential transfer institutions about admission
requirements such as overall minimum GPA, possible higher GPA in a selected
subset of courses, or a specific minimum grade in one or more courses such as
Math or English.
The Nursing program is regionally approved by the Washington State Board of
Nursing and nationally accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Education
in Nursing (ACEN).
Program Structure:
TCC offers two pathways for nursing students:
• The full-time, traditional RN option is completed over six academic
quarters (two years). Full-time students are admitted three times per
year: fall, winter, and spring.
• The LPN-to-RN program is completed over four academic quarters
(one year). LPNs are admitted into the program once a year in winter.
They will start the curriculum at Level 3 of the program and receive
Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) credits for 21 credits of courses
completed in Level 1 and 2 of the program. These students are still
required to complete SOCSC 204, which they will complete as part of
Level 3.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation. Admission is competitive and there are usually more
program applicants than available positions. Students who complete program
application requirements are not guaranteed program admission.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
135-137 RENDTAA Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Course Prerequisites
• No attempt or expiration date rules
• Students who completed prerequisite coursework at a college
other than TCC must submit an official transcript to
Enrollment Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be considered for
---RIGHT---
equivalency.
For details, visit Enrollment Services - Transfer Credits to
TCC.
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Prerequisite Courses
Earn a minimum grade of B in the following:
• CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
OR CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
• BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• BIOL&260 - General Microbiology
• PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
AND
Prerequisite Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
OR CMST110 - Multicultural Communication (Inactive)
OR CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
OR CMST&220 - Public Speaking
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
OR CMST320 - Professional and Organizational
Communication
• NUTR&101 - Human Nutrition
OR NUTR250 - Nutrition in Healthcare I
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
OR BIOL&222 - Introduction to Cellular and Molecular
Biology
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• 5 credits of Humanities Distribution Courses
AND
English Prerequistes
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
OR ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
Must complete one course with a minimum grade of B and one course
with a minimum grade of C.
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 135 quarter credit hours in courses numbered
100 or above.
• A minimum grade of C (2.0) in each course.
• Students must complete all courses in this program unless the
program chair grants an exception for transfer students from
another accredited nursing program.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.

@@@PAGE 374@@@
---LEFT---
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Level 1 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS101 - Health & Illness Level 1
• NURS115 - Skills and Assessment Lab I
• NURS153 - Pharmacology I
• NURS181 - Professional Concepts I
• NURS191 - Clinical I
• SOCSC204 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 1
Level 2 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS102 - Health & Illness Level 2
• NURS116 - Skills and Assessment Lab II
• NURS154 - Pharmacology II
• NURS192 - Clinical II
Level 3 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS103 - Health & Illness Level 3
• NURS124 - Clinical Simulation III
• NURS155 - Pharmacology III
• NURS193 - Clinical III
• PHIL201 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care I
Students in the LPN to RN program will complete SOCSC204 Psychosocial
Issues in Healthcare 1- Psychosocial Issues in Health Care I as part of Level
3.
Level 4 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS201 - Health & Illness Level 4
• NURS226 - Clinical Simulation IV
• NURS256 - Pharmacology IV
• NURS294 - Clinical IV
• PHIL202 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care II
Level 5 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
• NURS257 - Pharmacology V
• NURS295 - Clinical V
• SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
Level 6 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS228 - Clinical Simulation VI
• NURS244 - Preparation for the Natl Council Licensing Exam
• NURS287 - Professional Concepts II
• NURS296 - Transition to Practice: Clinical
• NUTR251 - Applied Nutrition for Nursing
---RIGHT---
Program Accreditation
Accrediting Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN)
3390 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 1400 Last Accreditation Review
Atlanta, Georgia 30326 2020
https://www.acenursing.org/
acen-programs-05202024/
tacoma-community-college

@@@PAGE 375@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
NURS101 - Health & Illness Level 1
General Information
This course introduces the student to beginning knowledge of nursing practice. It
focuses on the concepts Assessment; Health, Wellness & Illness; and Comfort
across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission to the Nursing Program
NURS102 - Health & Illness Level 2
General Information
Course description: This course introduces the student to beginning knowledge of
nursing practice. Health and Illness concepts included in this course are: Sexuality,
Reproduction, Mobility, Sensory Perception, Tissue Integrity, Immunity,
Elimination, and Nutrition. All concepts are applied to the care of individuals across
the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS115 - Skills and Assessment Lab I
AND NURS181 - Professional Concepts I
AND NURS191 - Clinical I
AND NURS153 - Pharmacology I
AND SOCSC204 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 1
AND NURS101 - Health & Illness Level 1
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
NURS103 - Health & Illness Level 3
General Information
This course introduces the student to intermediate knowledge of nursing practice.
Health and Illness concepts included in this course are: Fluid and Electrolytes,
Acid-Base Balance, Inflammation, Infection and Metabolism. All concepts are
applied to the care of individuals across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: NURS 154 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 116 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 192 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 102 with a minimum grade of C
NURS115 - Skills and Assessment Lab I
General Information
This course introduces the nursing student to the application of concepts through
clinical skills in the laboratory setting. Concepts of assessment, caring
interventions, teaching and learning, safety, mobility, elimination, perfusion,
oxygenation, and infection will be included across the lifespan. Students will
participate in supervised practice and competency validation under simulated
conditions.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission to the Nursing Program

@@@PAGE 376@@@
---LEFT---
NURS116 - Skills and Assessment Lab II
General Information
This course introduces the nursing student to the application of concepts through
clinical skills in the laboratory setting. Concepts of assessment, caring
interventions, comfort, fluid and electrolytes, elimination, nutrition, metabolism,
tissue integrity, and infection will be included across the lifespan. Accurate
calculation, measurement, and administration of medications will be also be
emphasized. Students will participate in supervised practice and competency
validation under simulated conditions.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS115 - Skills and Assessment Lab I
AND NURS153 - Pharmacology I
AND NURS181 - Professional Concepts I
AND NURS191 - Clinical I
AND NURS101 - Health & Illness Level 1
AND SOCSC204 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 1
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
NURS124 - Clinical Simulation III
General Information
This course provides learning opportunities through simulated practice of nursing
care delivery. It includes participation in select patient scenarios across the
lifespan in a simulation lab setting, using application of concepts in coordination
with other courses in the program.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: NURS 116 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 154 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 192 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 102 with a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
NURS153 - Pharmacology I
General Information
This course introduces the student to pharmacology. Pharmacological concepts
included in this course are: pharmacokinetics, routes of administration, dosage
calculation, safe medication administration, therapeutic effects, side and adverse
effects, interactions, and contraindications. Specific medications related to the
concepts Health, Wellness & Illness, Comfort, Stress & Coping, and Development
are included.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission to the Nursing Program
NURS154 - Pharmacology II
General Information
This course continues with pharmacological concepts about the pharmacokinetics,
routes of administration, dosage calculation, safe medication administration,
therapeutic effects, side and adverse effects, interactions, and contraindications of
specific medications for the following areas: Immunity, Sexuality, Reproduction,
Elimination, and Nutrition across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS115 - Skills and Assessment Lab I
AND NURS191 - Clinical I
AND NURS181 - Professional Concepts I
AND NURS153 - Pharmacology I
AND NURS101 - Health & Illness Level 1
AND SOCSC204 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 1
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 377@@@
---LEFT---
NURS155 - Pharmacology III
General Information
This course continues with pharmacological concepts about the pharmacokinetics,
routes of administration, dosage calculation, safe medication administration,
therapeutic effects, side and adverse effects, interactions, and contraindications of
specific medications for these areas across the lifespan: Fluid and Electrolytes,
Acid-Base Balance, Inflammation, Infection, and Metabolism.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: NURS 116 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 192 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 154 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 102 with a minimum grade of C
NURS181 - Professional Concepts I
General Information
This course introduces the student to beginning knowledge, skills and attitudes of
nursing as a profession and includes the following concepts across the lifespan:
Professional Behaviors, Collaboration, and Clinical Decision Making.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission to the Nursing Program
---RIGHT---
NURS191 - Clinical I
General Information
This course introduces students to the application of concepts and skills in
sub-acute care and community settings. Principles of communication, assessment,
safety, and application of the nursing process will be included across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission to the Nursing Program
NURS192 - Clinical II
General Information
This course introduces students to the application of concepts and skills in
subacute and acute care settings across the lifespan, including maternal-child and
pediatrics. Mental health concepts are an additional focus as applied to patients/
clients in non-psychiatric settings. Principles of communication, safety, and
application of the nursing process, including accurate calculation, measurement,
and administration of medications, will be included.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS115 - Skills and Assessment Lab I
AND NURS153 - Pharmacology I
AND NURS181 - Professional Concepts I
AND NURS191 - Clinical I
AND NURS101 - Health & Illness Level 1
AND SOCSC204 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 1
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 378@@@
---LEFT---
NURS193 - Clinical III
General Information
This course introduces students to the application of concepts and skills in caring
for patients with medical-surgical needs in the acute care setting across the
lifespan. Principles of communication, safety, and application of the nursing
process, including accurate calculation, measurement, and administration of
medications, will be included.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: NURS 116 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 154 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 192 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 102 with a minimum grade of C
NURS201 - Health & Illness Level 4
General Information
This course introduces the student to intermediate knowledge of nursing practice.
Health and Illness concepts included in this course are: Neuroprotection,
Oxygenation, Perfusion, and Thermoregulation. All concepts are applied to the
care of individuals across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS124 - Clinical Simulation III
AND NURS155 - Pharmacology III
AND NURS193 - Clinical III
AND NURS103 - Health & Illness Level 3
AND PHIL201 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
General Information
This course introduces the student to advanced knowledge of nursing practice. It
addresses complex aspects of the following health and illness concepts: Immunity,
Fluid and Electrolytes, Tissue Integrity, Cellular Regulation, Comfort, and Grief and
Loss. All concepts are applied to the care of individuals across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS226 - Clinical Simulation IV
AND NURS256 - Pharmacology IV
AND NURS294 - Clinical IV
AND NURS201 - Health & Illness Level 4
AND PHIL202 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care II
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
NURS226 - Clinical Simulation IV
General Information
This course provides continued learning opportunities through simulated practice
of nursing care delivery. It includes participation in select patient/client scenarios
across the lifespan in a simulation lab setting, using application of concepts in
coordination with other courses in the program.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: (PHIL 201 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 124 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 155 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 193 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 103 with a minimum
grade of C) or (NURS 117 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 125
with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 156 with a minimum grade of C
AND NURS 177 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 184 with a
minimum grade of C)

@@@PAGE 379@@@
---LEFT---
NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
General Information
This course provides advanced learning opportunities through simulated practice
of nursing care delivery. It includes participation in select patient scenarios across
the lifespan in a simulation lab setting, using application of concepts in
coordination with other courses in the program.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS226 - Clinical Simulation IV
AND NURS256 - Pharmacology IV
AND PHIL202 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care II
AND NURS294 - Clinical IV
AND NURS201 - Health & Illness Level 4
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
NURS228 - Clinical Simulation VI
General Information
This course provides culminating learning opportunities through simulated
practice of nursing care delivery. It includes participation in select patient
scenarios across the lifespan in a simulation lab setting, using application of
concepts in coordination with other courses in the program.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
AND NURS257 - Pharmacology V
AND SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
AND NURS295 - Clinical V
AND NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
NURS234 - Transition to Practice: Seminar
General Information
This course supports the student's Transition To Practice clinical experience in
NURS 296. It provides the opportunity to reflect on clinical experiences with peers,
and formulate problem-solving strategies that can be applied in the clinical setting
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
AND NURS257 - Pharmacology V
AND SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
AND NURS295 - Clinical V
AND NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 380@@@
---LEFT---
NURS244 - Preparation for the Natl Council Licensing
Exam
General Information
This course is to prepare students through extensive assessment and review for
the National Council of State Boards of Nursings National Council Licensing
Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN).
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
AND NURS295 - Clinical V
AND NURS257 - Pharmacology V
AND SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
AND
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
NURS256 - Pharmacology IV
General Information
This course continues with pharmacological concepts about the pharmacokinetics,
routes of administration, dosage calculation, safe medication administration,
therapeutic effects, side and adverse effects, interactions, and contraindications of
specific medications for these areas across the lifespan: Oxygenation, Perfusion,
and Neuroprotection.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: (NURS 124 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 193 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 155 with a minimum grade of C AND
PHIL 201 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 103 with a minimum
grade of C) or (NURS 117 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 125
with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 156 with a minimum grade of C
AND NURS 177 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 184 with a
minimum grade of C)
---RIGHT---
NURS257 - Pharmacology V
General Information
This course continues with pharmacological concepts about the pharmacokinetics,
routes of administration, dosage calculation, safe medication administration,
therapeutic effects, side and adverse effects, interactions, and contraindications of
specific medications or fluids for medications in these areas: immunity, fluid and
electrolytes, infection, cellular regulation, comfort, cognition and mood and affect
across the lifespan.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS226 - Clinical Simulation IV
AND NURS294 - Clinical IV
AND NURS256 - Pharmacology IV
AND PHIL202 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care II
AND NURS201 - Health & Illness Level 4
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 381@@@
---LEFT---
NURS260 - Advanced Intravenous Therapy Skills
General Information
This course provides advanced content related to the care of clients receiving
intravenous therapies. Concepts include selecting solutions, managing common
complications of intravenous access devices and therapy, legal/ethical
considerations, infection control, managing catheters and implanted access
devices. The concepts Clinical Decision Making, Growth and Development,
Nutrition, pharmacology, and Teaching and Learning are integrated.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS103 - Health & Illness Level 3
AND NURS124 - Clinical Simulation III
AND NURS155 - Pharmacology III
AND NURS193 - Clinical III
AND PHIL201 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---
NURS286 - Professional Concepts VI
General Information
This course introduces the student to advanced knowledge and attitudes of
nursing as a profession and includes the concepts across the lifespan: Quality
Improvement, Professional Behaviors, and Clinical Decision Making.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
AND NURS257 - Pharmacology V
AND NURS295 - Clinical V
AND NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
AND SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
NURS287 - Professional Concepts II
General Information
This course is a corequisite with the Transition to Practice clinical experience in
NURS 296 (Preceptorship). It provides the opportunity to reflect on clinical
experiences with peers and formulate problem-solving strategies that can be
applied in the clinical setting. It also introduces students to advanced knowledge
and attitudes of nursing as a profession and includes the concepts across the
lifespan: Quality Improvement, Professional Behaviors, and Clinical Decision
Making.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Nursing
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
• NURS257 - Pharmacology V
• NURS295 - Clinical V
• NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
• SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2

@@@PAGE 382@@@
---LEFT---
NURS294 - Clinical IV
General Information
This course continues learning opportunities for students to apply concepts and
skills in caring for patients with medical-surgical needs in the acute care or
specialty care setting across the lifespan. Principles of communication, safety, and
application of the nursing process, including accurate calculation, measurement,
and administration of medications, will be included.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: (NURS 124 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 155 with
a minimum grade of C AND PHIL 201 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 193 with a minimum grade of C or NURS 103 with a minimum
grade of C) or (NURS 117 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 125
with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 156 with a minimum grade of C
AND NURS 177 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 184 with a
minimum grade of C)
---RIGHT---
NURS295 - Clinical V
General Information
This course advances learning opportunities for students to apply concepts and
skills in caring for patients with complex medical-surgical needs in the acute care
or specialty care setting across the lifespan. Principles of communication, safety,
and application of the nursing process, including accurate calculation,
measurement, and administration of medications, will be included.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS226 - Clinical Simulation IV
AND NURS256 - Pharmacology IV
AND PHIL202 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care II
AND NURS294 - Clinical IV
AND NURS201 - Health & Illness Level 4
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.

@@@PAGE 383@@@
---LEFT---
NURS296 - Transition to Practice: Clinical
General Information
This course is the student's culminating clinical experience and provides immersion
into clinical nursing practice. All previously acquired knowledge, skills and
attitudes are reinforced and applied to patient care under the supervision of an
experienced registered nurse in community partners' health care facilities.
Components Credits
Clinical 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
AND NURS257 - Pharmacology V
AND NURS295 - Clinical V
AND NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
AND SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
NURS297 - Independent Study Nursing Clinical
General Information
Independent learning activity designed jointly by student and instructor to
improve and/or increase the knowledge and skill of the learner. May be taken three
times for a total of five credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Clinical 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission
---RIGHT---
NURS298 - Independent Study Nursing Lab and
Simulation
General Information
Independent lab and/or simulation learning activity designed jointly by student
and instructor to improve and/or increase the knowledge and skill of the learner.
May be taken three times for a total of five credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lab 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission
NURS299 - Individualized Studies in Nursing
General Information
Independent learning activity designed jointly by student and instructor to
improve and/or increase the knowledge and skill of the learner. May be taken three
times for a total of five credits.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission.

@@@PAGE 384@@@
---LEFT---
SOCSC204 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 1
General Information
This course examines concepts necessary for the effective provision of healthcare
in the psychosocial domain. It addresses determinants of health and illness across
the lifespan, including social, psychological, environmental, spiritual, and cultural
dimensions. Concepts include communication, family, culture & diversity,
spirituality, caring interventions, development, stress and coping, and self.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission to Nursing Program
SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
General Information
This course examines concepts necessary for the effective provision of healthcare
in the psychosocial domain. It addresses determinants of health and illness across
the lifespan, including social, psychological, environmental, spiritual, and cultural
dimensions. Concepts include cognition, violence, mood and affect, behavior, and
stress and coping.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS103 - Health & Illness Level 3
AND NURS124 - Clinical Simulation III
AND NURS155 - Pharmacology III
AND NURS193 - Clinical III
AND PHIL201 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care I
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 385@@@
---LEFT---
Nursing Assistant Certified Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/healthcare/nursing/
Email: nursing@tacomacc.edu
Program Chair: Beth Hastert bhastert@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 386@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
Certified Nursing Assistant Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Certified Nursing Assistant Certificate
Catalog Description
The Nursing Assistant Certified (NAC) program prepares students for employment
as Certified Nursing Assistants (CNAs) in a variety of healthcare settings, including
hospitals, long-term care facilities, and home health environments. CNAs work
under the supervision of licensed nursing professionals, providing direct patient
care and essential support. They play a critical role in ensuring patient comfort,
safety, and well-being, while also maintaining accurate documentation of the care
provided.
The curriculum includes comprehensive training in key areas such as patient rights,
communication and interpersonal skills, safety and emergency procedures, CPR
certification, basic nursing and personal care techniques, restorative services, and
support for individuals experiencing life transitions.
Graduates of the program will be eligible to take the Nursing Assistant
Certification (NAC) Exam, which includes both an in-person skills assessment and
an online written test.
The Nursing Assistant Certified (NAC) program at TCC is approved by the State of
Washington, Department of Health, and Nursing Care Quality Assurance
Commission.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
10 NAACNC01 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
CERTIFICATE COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
• All 10 credits for this certificate must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher
to count towards certificate completion.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework applied
to the certificate.
Certificate Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NAC110 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
• NAC120 - Patient Care Clinical
• NAC198 - Foundations of Nursing Assistant Care
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 387@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
NAC110 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
General Information
This course provides students with the ability to practice and validate in the lab
learning environment the knowledge and skills necessary to provide safe patient
care. The knowledge, skills, and abilities include but are not limited to: CPR, vital
signs, caregiver body mechanics, nutrition, assisting with personal hygiene and
patient grooming, range of motion, transfer techniques, ambulation,
interdisciplinary collaboration, and infection control.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Nursing Assistant Certified Courses
Enroll in the following Courses:
• NAC120 - Patient Care Clinical
• NAC198 - Foundations of Nursing Assistant Care
NAC120 - Patient Care Clinical
General Information
This course consists of supervised application of basic nursing skills in actual
patient care settings. Students will provide patient care under the guidelines of
federal and state requirements and will demonstrate competencies required to
apply for the Washington State Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) certification
exam.
Components Credits
Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Nursing Assistant Certified Courses
Enroll in the following Courses:
• NAC110 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
• NAC198 - Foundations of Nursing Assistant Care
Nutrition Department
Nutrition Department Chair: Heather Cushman - hcushman@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
NAC198 - Foundations of Nursing Assistant Care
General Information
This course introduces entry level healthcare workers to concepts essential for
providing basic nursing care safely in various healthcare settings. Students will
explore the nursing assistants role, medical terminology, basic body systems,
interdisciplinary care, and legal/ethical issues related to nursing assistant practice.
Concepts of communication, collaboration, cultural humility, diversity, and safety/
emergency protocols are also introduced.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
Nursing Assistant Certified Courses
Enroll in the following Courses:
• NAC110 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
• NAC120 - Patient Care Clinical
NAC199 - CNA Skills for Other Health Providers
General Information
This independent study course will provide instruction and evaluation of essential
nursing assistant skills as an alternative to NAC licensure to qualify for application
to the TCC nursing program. The course is only for students with another
healthcare license that involves direct patient care.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission AND license verification required.
Recommended Preparation: It is recommended that students take this
course only once they are reasonably assured of completing other
requirements for application to the TCC Nursing Program, AND within 6
months of anticipated application.

@@@PAGE 388@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
NUTR&101 - Human Nutrition
General Information
A scientific study of human nutrition, with an emphasis on a chemical
understanding of the major nutrients, a biologic understanding of the
gastrointestinal tract and a practical understanding of dietary needs throughout
life. This is not a lab course. Students may not receive credit for both NUTR 101
and NUTR& 101.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology & Chemistry
Complete at least 0 of the following courses:
• BIOL&100 - Survey of Biology
OR BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
OR CHEM&110 - Chemical Concepts w/lab
NUTR250 - Nutrition in Healthcare I
General Information
An introduction to the science of nutrition. Examines the foundational concepts of
diet and nutrition in relation to health across the lifespan and in the context of
healthcare professions.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology/Chemistry
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
AND CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
Oceanography Department
For more information on our Oceanography department: Oceanography : Tacoma Community
---RIGHT---
NUTR251 - Applied Nutrition for Nursing
General Information
This course applies principles of nutrition to nursing care planning and delivery.
Emphasis is on nutrition for individuals with disease processes related to concepts
learned throughout the nursing curriculum.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing/Social Sciences
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• NURS295 - Clinical V
AND NURS227 - Clinical Simulation V
AND NURS202 - Health & Illness Level 5
AND NURS257 - Pharmacology V
AND SOCSC205 - Psychosocial Issues in Healthcare 2
Additional Comments:
All courses must be completed with a C grade or higher.
College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 389@@@
---LEFT---
Oceanography Department Chair: Heather Cushman - Hcushman@tacomacc.edu
Courses
OCEA&101 - Introduction to Oceanography
General Information
Focuses on topics such as the origin of ocean basins, seawater chemistry,
atmospheric and oceanic circulation, waves, and marine ecosystems. The
laboratory includes investigations of oceanographic phenomena and local field
trips.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
Recommended
Proficiency in Algebra.
OCEA179 - Special Topics in Oceanography
General Information
These are seminars designed to provide Oceanography students with the
opportunity to study selected oceanography topics and techniques. Topics and/or
techniques covered will generally be determined by the instructor but may also
reflect the expressed need or interest of students in the earth science program.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
OCEA299 - Independent Study in Oceanography
General Information
Independent study of oceanographic topics.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 390@@@
---LEFT---
Paralegal Studies Department
TCC’s American Bar Association-approved program offers options to those who wish
eligible for positions in a law office, legal department of a corporation, public agency,
by faculty who represent various aspects of the field of law and hold a high regard for
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/paralegalaas
Department email: PLST@tacomacc.edu
Department Chair: Beth Acken - Backen@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
to pursue a career in the exciting, fast-growing field of legal services. Graduates may be
court system, private investigation firm, and paralegal services. Legal courses are taught
academic and professional integrity.

@@@PAGE 391@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 392@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Paralegal
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Paralegal
Catalog Description
The Associate in Applied Science in Paralegal prepares students for careers in legal
services, providing specialized training to support attorneys and other legal
professionals. Students gain practical skills in legal research, document
preparation, client communication, and legal technology essential to working in a
legal environment.
Depending on their educational background, students are eligible for admission to
either the degree or the Paralegal Professional Certificate program. Students may
not simultaneously obtain the Associate in Applied Science in Paralegal and
Paralegal Preferred Pro-Certificate using the same set of courses. Students who
transfer from other paralegal programs must contact the Program Chair to discuss
the law course transfer credit policy.
Graduates may continue their education at TCC and work towards a Bachelor's
Program in Applied Management or Community Health. Students should discuss
their interest in pursuing this path, or any other transfer, with their advisor.
Students who plan to transfer to a Bachelor's program at another institution are
strongly encouraged to contact their transfer institution to discuss requirements
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
91 LAPPPAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 91 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher
to count towards degree completion except where otherwise
noted.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Distribution Requirements (30 credits)
---RIGHT---
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Advising Note:
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Business Math
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Advising Notes:
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics is required for students entering
the BAS in Community Health program and students entering the BAS
in Applied Management Program
Social Science (10 credits)
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
Core Requirements (48 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Paralegal Courses (43 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
• PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I

@@@PAGE 393@@@
---LEFT---
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
• PLST233 - Internship I - Paralegal
• PLST251 - Legal Research And Writing II
Microsoft Word & Excel (5 credits)
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Paralegal Electives (8 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Paralegal Elective Courses
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• PLST221 - Family Law
• PLST222 - Probate/Estate Planning
• PLST223 - Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
• PLST224 - Real Estate Law
• PLST225 - Bankruptcy Law (Inactive)
• PLST226 - Administrative Law
• PLST228 - Employment and Labor Law
• PLST230 - Business Organization and Corporations
• PLST231 - Contracts and Commercial Transactions
• PLST234 - Internship II - Paralegal
• PLST235 - Evidence and e-Discovery
• PLST237 - Introduction to Tax Law
• PLST253 - Civil Procedure II
• PLST255 - Torts and Personal Injury
College-Level Electives (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
---RIGHT---
College-Level Electives
Complete 5 credits of elective courses numbered 100 or above.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Students may apply a single Multicultural-designated course from the
Communication Skills or Social Sciences Distribution to fulfill up to two
requirements simultaneously - multicultural requirement and one
distribution requirement. This overlap does not reduce the total degree
requirement of 90 quarter credits. Consult course list under each
distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Applied Science in Paralegal Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 394@@@
---LEFT---
Paralegal Professional Certificate
Overview
Full Credential Title
Paralegal Professional Certificate
Catalog Description
The Paralegal Professional Certificate prepares students for careers in legal
services, providing specialized training to support attorneys and other legal
professionals. Students gain practical skills in legal research, document
preparation, client communication, and legal technology essential to working in a
legal environment.
To enroll in this program, students must provide proof of completing an Associate
of Arts or Associate of Science degree (or higher) from an accredited
postsecondary institution.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
53 LAPPPC45 Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• All required courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• After completing all certificate requirements, students must apply
to graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Requirements (43 credits)
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
• PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
• PLST233 - Internship I - Paralegal
• PLST251 - Legal Research And Writing II
Microsoft Word & Excel (5 credits)
Fulfill ANY of the following requirements:
Word & Excel Course
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
---RIGHT---
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR
Word & Excel Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• CU102 - Word I
• CU103 - Excel I
OR
Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Complete Microsoft Office Specialist Certification(s)
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Word Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU102.
Students who hold the Microsoft Office Specialist: Excel Associate
Certification may be able to use it as a substitute for CU103.
To initiate the substitution process or for additional information,
students should contact Computer User (CU) Coordinator Christine
Cerny.
Electives (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• PLST221 - Family Law
• PLST222 - Probate/Estate Planning
• PLST223 - Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
• PLST224 - Real Estate Law
• PLST226 - Administrative Law
• PLST228 - Employment and Labor Law
• PLST230 - Business Organization and Corporations
• PLST231 - Contracts and Commercial Transactions
• PLST237 - Introduction to Tax Law
• PLST253 - Civil Procedure II
• PLST255 - Torts and Personal Injury
Courses must be completed with minimum grade of C.
Program Map
Paralegal Preferred Pro-Certificate Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Business, Paralegal, and Technology Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 395@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
General Information
Students will learn about the professional development and career opportunities
in the paralegal profession. Students will increase their understanding of specific
areas of the law, the sources of American law, and the American court system.
Students will also examine the ethical and professional responsibilities, the
professional organizations, and the skills needed for a paralegal career.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
or be concurrently enrolled in ENGL&101 English Composition I.
---RIGHT---
PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I
General Information
An introduction to state and federal legal research practices and legal writing.
Emphasis is on the location and analysis of validated, primary legal sources,
including statutes and cases. Students will practice writing professional legal
documents, such as client correspondence, case briefs, and legal memorandums,
using proper legal citations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Paralegal
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
or be concurrently enrolled in PLST150 Paralegal Fundamentals and
Ethics.

@@@PAGE 396@@@
---LEFT---
PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
General Information
An overview of the civil litigation process, civil rules of procedure for Washington,
local court rules, and the types of cases handled in civil court. This includes an
examination of the pre-litigation process, the commencement of a civil action,
pleading and motions, parties to a case, discovery of evidence, trial, judgments,
appeals, and alternative dispute resolution options. Students will examine the
paralegal’s role in this process. Students will draft civil litigation documents with an
emphasis on using the Washington State Court Rules, as well as civil litigation case
law, effectively.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
• PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Math Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
or another MATH class (5 credits) numbered 100 or higher.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in one of the following:
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU102 - Word I
AND CU103 - Excel I
or Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) certification in Word and Excel).
---RIGHT---
PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
General Information
An overview of the civil litigation process, civil rules of procedure for Washington,
local court rules, and the types of cases handled in civil court. This includes an
examination of prelitigation, the commencement of a civil action, pleading and
motions, parties to a case, discovery of evidence, trial, judgments, appeals, and
alternative dispute resolution options. Students will examine the paralegal’s role in
this process. Students will draft civil litigation documents with an emphasis on
using the Washington State Court Rules, as well as civil litigation case law,
effectively.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
• PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
PLST152 Introduction to Civil Law may be taken concurrently.
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Math Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
OR another MATH class numbered 100 or higher.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU102 - Word I
AND CU103 - Excel I
or Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) certification in World and Excel.

@@@PAGE 397@@@
---LEFT---
PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
General Information
This course is an overview of criminal law with an emphasis on Washington
statutes and criminal procedure from arrest to final disposition and appeals. The
course emphasizes the constitutional rights of the accused and the role paralegals
play in the criminal justice system. Students will practice writing documents
typically drafted by paralegals in a law office or agency in the field of criminal law
defense or prosecution.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
• PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Math Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
OR MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
OR another MATH class numbered 100 or higher.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU102 - Word I
AND CU103 - Excel I
or Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) certification in World and Excel.
---RIGHT---
PLST157 - Legal Technology
General Information
Students will increase their understanding and use of technology that is relevant in
the paralegal profession. Students will understand and use netiquette in the
development of legal documents and communications, and the use of video
conferencing systems. Students will be familiar with current electronic case
management systems, court filing systems, and financial management systems.
Students will also examine the ethical and professional responsibilities required of
attorneys when using legal technology.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST150 - Paralegal Fundamentals and Ethics
• PLST151 - Legal Research and Writing I
English Composition
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Math Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• BUS110 - Business Math for Decision Making
or MATH class numbered 100 or higher.
Microsoft Word & Excel
Earn a minimum grade of C or higher in the following:
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CU105 - Word I & Excel I
• CU102 - Word I
AND CU103 - Excel I
or Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) certification in World and Excel.

@@@PAGE 398@@@
---LEFT---
PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
General Information
Students are introduced to the legal contexts in which interviewing and
investigating skills are utilized. This includes the introduction to factual
investigations and interviewing, with emphasis on methods of investigation, role of
pretrial discovery, examination of evidence, use of experts, obtaining public and
private information, and the ethical considerations associated with interviews and
investigations. Great emphasis is placed on the development of communication
skills for interviewing and the use of resources available for investigating,
particularly Internet resources.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
PLST153 Civil Procedure I and PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
may be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
PLST221 - Family Law
General Information
To provide an overview of legal authorities and procedures involved in family law.
Topics include marriage and domestic partnership rights and agreements;
dissolution of marriage and domestic partnerships; spousal support and
categorization of property; child custody, visitation, and support; adoptions and
parenting issues; and domestic violence. The skills necessary for a paralegal
working in family law will be emphasized.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 399@@@
---LEFT---
PLST222 - Probate/Estate Planning
General Information
To provide an overview of legal authorities and procedures involved in probate and
estate planning. Topics include estate planning tools such as wills and trusts;
probate practice concepts including asset accumulation, debt management, and
tax consequences; and health care directives. The skills and document production
necessary for a paralegal working in the area of probate and estate law will be
emphasized.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
PLST223 - Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
General Information
To provide an overview of the ways that disputes can be resolved without litigation
or trial. Topics include negotiation, mediation and arbitration, as well as other
conflict resolution options. Students will become familiar with the ADR laws in
Washington State.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 400@@@
---LEFT---
PLST224 - Real Estate Law
General Information
An introduction to law and legal systems as related to real estate transactions.
Major topics include forms of ownership; title, transfers and insurance; fraud,
deceit and misrepresentation; contract law and documents; real estate security
documents; and duties and liabilities of licensees. Emphasis is placed on the
paralegal’s role in real estate and property law practice.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
PLST226 - Administrative Law
General Information
Study of administrative procedures acts governing state and federal agencies.
Topics include creation of agencies, constitutional limits on agencies, agency rule
making and authority to act, scope of judicial review, and legal procedures for
administrative law cases.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 401@@@
---LEFT---
PLST228 - Employment and Labor Law
General Information
An introduction to the roles and responsibilities of the employers, employees, and
labor unions. Topics include the laws governing health and safety in the workplace,
labor unions and union-management relations, employment discrimination,
wrongful employment termination, pension plans, retirement and disability income
(Social Security), employee privacy rights, the minimum wage, and overtime wages.
Washington State workers' compensation statutes will be examined.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
PLST230 - Business Organization and Corporations
General Information
An examination of the laws governing business organizations, including the sole
proprietorship, the partnership, the limited liability company, and the corporation.
Topics include business formation, articles of incorporation, corporate bylaws,
operational requirements including corporate meetings, shareholder proposals,
the sale of corporate securities, corporate mergers and acquisitions, and the
termination of a corporation.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 402@@@
---LEFT---
PLST231 - Contracts and Commercial Transactions
General Information
To provide an overview of the applied contract process and Article 2 of the
Uniform Commercial Code. Topics include the laws governing the prerequisites of
contracting parties, contract formation, contract performance, commercial
transactions, breach of contract, and available remedies.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.
PLST233 - Internship I - Paralegal
General Information
The Internship I course provides paralegal majors with the opportunity to apply
their classroom learning to worksite responsibilities. The internship offers
paralegal students practical work experience under the supervision of an attorney
and often a skilled paralegal in day-to-day legal work. Weekly seminar discussions
are required.
Components Credits
Independent Study 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
---RIGHT---
PLST234 - Internship II - Paralegal
General Information
The Internship II course provides paralegal majors with an additional opportunity
to apply their classroom learning to worksite responsibilities. Weekly seminar
discussions will focus on career advancement.
Components Credits
Independent Study 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Studies
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
• PLST233 - Internship I - Paralegal
Program Chair Permission
Program Chair Permission Required
PLST235 - Evidence and e-Discovery
General Information
A survey in evidence and e-Discovery. Evidence laws and discovery rules are
reviewed. There will be an examination of concepts, issues, and solutions
presented by Electronically Stored Information (ESI) and e-Discovery. Focus will be
on current civil litigation procedures.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 403@@@
---LEFT---
PLST237 - Introduction to Tax Law
General Information
An introduction to federal income tax law. Following traditional instruction
methodology supplemented with practical law office skill development, this course
outlines theories behind federal income tax law, identifying various sources of
taxation authority, observing financial circumstances that may determine tax
liability, legal and ethical implications, and organizing and preparing a client's tax
information for use in preparing necessary taxation forms.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.
---RIGHT---
PLST251 - Legal Research And Writing II
General Information
Building on the research and writing skills acquired in PLST 151, emphasis is on
critical analysis of legal authorities, analytical reading and writing, and persuasive
and objective writing techniques. Students prepare a variety of documents
requiring citation format for cases, statutes, and secondary legal authority,
including a motion with persuasive brief.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 404@@@
---LEFT---
PLST253 - Civil Procedure II
General Information
A continuation of the concepts and legal applications learned in PLST 152, to
include further analysis of the various issues confronted in civil litigation. Students
will learn to interpret and apply state and federal statues and court rules to
address legal problems. Students will draft various types of legal documents
intended to be presented in court and will be able to formulate arguments for and
against various legal positions that arise during a civil lawsuit.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Paralegal Studies
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations
PLST156 Criminal Procedure for Paralegals and PLST201 Interviewing and
Investigations may be taken concurrently.
Philosophy Department
Philosophy Department Chair: Andrew Cho - acho@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
PLST255 - Torts and Personal Injury
General Information
An overview of tort and personal injury law with an emphasis on Washington
statutes and procedure. This course will include concepts of negligence, intentional
torts, and strict liability claims. Students will practice writing documents and
providing analysis which are typically conducted by paralegals in a law office or
agency in the field of civil and personal injury practice.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Paralegal Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• PLST152 - Introduction to Civil Law
• PLST153 - Civil Procedure I
• PLST156 - Criminal Procedure for Paralegals
• PLST157 - Legal Technology
• PLST201 - Interviewing and Investigations

@@@PAGE 405@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
PHIL&101 - Introduction to Philosophy
General Information
An introduction to the discipline of Philosophy; this course will explore the
traditional areas of philosophical inquiry, including the nature of reality, the nature
of knowledge, and the existence of moral and aesthetic values.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
PHIL201 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care I
General Information
This course introduces the student to ethics and policy issues related to nursing as
a profession. Concepts include Legal Practice, Health Care Systems, Informatics,
Evidence-based Practice, Safety, Teaching and Learning and Ethical Practice.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: NURS 102 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 116 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 154 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 192 with a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
PHIL202 - Ethics and Policy in Health Care II
General Information
This course introduces the student to ethics and policy issues related to nursing as
a profession. Concepts include Advocacy, Managing Care, Health Policy, Ethical
Practice and Accountability.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Nursing
Prerequisite: NURS 201 with a minimum grade of C AND NURS 226 with
a minimum grade of C AND NURS 256 with a minimum grade of C AND
NURS 294 with a minimum grade of C
PHIL320 - Ethical Decision Making
General Information
This course covers the complexities of making ethical decisions. Students will
encounter major philosophical concepts and theories from the field of ethics.
Students will explore the tools, and techniques to make ethical decisions. Students
will cultivate their capacity for ethical perception, learn to distinguish tough
choices from genuine ethical dilemmas, and gain practice deliberating effectively
about a variety of ethical issues drawn from professional contexts. Students will
explore the many aspects of what it means to show leadership and how ethical
decision making plays a role in leadership at all levels. Students will investigate the
mission, vision, and values of their profession to identify ethical standards of
practice.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Library Science
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• LS301 - Research Skills for BAS
Additional Comments:
Acceptance into the BAS program also required

@@@PAGE 406@@@
---LEFT---
Physical Education Department
Physical Education Department Chair: Sue Schenk - sschenk@tacomacc.edu
Courses
PE100 - Total Fitness
General Information
An up-to-date approach to physical fitness for better living. Combination lecture
and lab, stressing the importance of life-long fitness. Increasing the awareness and
establishing the values, benefits and necessity of regular physical activity related
to health. Will include individual evaluation, prescription and program
implementation.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
PE106 - Tai Chi
General Information
Tai Chi is an ancient Chinese system of health giving exercise. Students will build
concentration, increase flexibility, and improve physical fitness by learning and
practicing basic Tai Chi forms and movements.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE108 - Beginning Weight Training
General Information
A course designed to introduce the student to the benefits of a regular weight
training routine. The student will be taught various exercises in isotonic, isometric
and isokinetic lifting. Safety precautions and guidelines will be stressed.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE109 - Muscle Toning
General Information
An upbeat, high energy course that emphasizes the development of major muscle
groups. This course combines functional movements with strength and aerobic
movements. Emphasis on total body conditioning and daily functional activities
with isometric and isotonic movements. Instruction will include the safe and
effective use of fitness equipment including physio balls, bosu balls, dumbbells,
kettle bells, resistance bands, and body bars. This dynamic workout uses varied
tempos and resistance to challenge your upper, lower, and core and back muscles.
This workout uses multiple joint movements and full body exercises to help you
build strong muscles. This course is designed to be suitable for all ages, fitness
levels, and experience.
Components Credits
Lab 1
---RIGHT---
PE111 - Walking for Wellness
General Information
This course is designed to introduce the student to walking and its contributions to
wellness. Content includes benefits of walking, development of safe and effective
walking skills, nutrition and equipment to enhance walking, and essential
components of a walking program.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE122 - Beginning Bowling
General Information
A course designed to acquaint the student with the game of Bowling. Emphasis is
placed on basic fundamentals, mechanics, faults and rules of bowling.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE126 - Beginning Badminton & Pickleball
General Information
A course designed to allow the student to develop the necessary skills,
fundamentals, strategies and knowledge of rules to participate in recreational
badminton and pickelball.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE135 - Beginning Soccer
General Information
A course designed to introduce the student to soccer. Emphasis will be placed on
basic fundamentals, strategies, and rules of the game.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE136 - Volleyball
General Information
A course designed to introduce the student to the game of volleyball. Emphasis will
be placed on basic skills, i.e., serve, set, pass, block, spike, team strategy and rules of
play
Components Credits
Lab 1

@@@PAGE 407@@@
---LEFT---
PE140 - Cardio Fitness
General Information
This course is designed to give student information and practical experience on
how to maintain a healthy cardiovascular system. Physical activities, nutritional
guidelines, and unhealthy behaviors pertaining to cardiovascular health will be
covered.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 1
PE142 - Introduction to Yoga
General Information
This course is designed to introduce students to the benefits of yoga as a way to
understand the mind/body relationship in exercise and fitness. Basic yoga
techniques will be taught as a way to develop balance, core strength, flexibility, and
joint stability.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE155 - Fast Fitness
General Information
Comprehensive physical education course designed to develop strength, flexibility,
muscular endurance and cardiovascular efficiency in an effective and timely
manner through the use of circuit training.
Components Credits
Lab 1
PE170 - Independent Fitness Lab I
General Information
Self-paced conditioning for the motivated student. This course is designed to give
students the opportunity to assess current physical fitness level, establish personal
fitness goals, develop and follow an individualized self-paced fitness program.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Prerequisite: PE 100 with a minimum grade of C or PE 108 with a
minimum grade of C or PE 140 with a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
PE171 - Independent Fitness Lab II
General Information
Self-paced conditioning for the motivated student. This course is designed to give
students the opportunity to assess current fitness goals, as well as develop and
follow an individualized self-paced fitness plan.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE170 - Independent Fitness Lab I
PE175 - Hiking
General Information
This course is designed to introduce the student to basic techniques and skills
necessary to enjoy minimum-impact hiking. Includes information on hiking
essentials, trip planning, route finding, equipment, basic wilderness survival, and
wilderness first aid. This course also includes several hiking trips throughout the
quarter.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 1
PE190 - Health and Wellness
General Information
A course for students to learn how to take control of their personal health and
lifestyle habits so they can make a constant and deliberate effort to stay healthy
and achieve the highest potential for well-being. Encompasses a total wellness
concept of one's physical, mental, emotional and social well being. Students will
examine major health issues of contemporary society, with emphasis on identifying
risk factors. (This course is a NOT a PE activity course.)
Components Credits
Lecture 3

@@@PAGE 408@@@
---LEFT---
PE191 - Contemporary Health and Wellness
General Information
Emphasis is placed on the relationship between course content and lifestyle
choices to foster a better understanding of health issues today. Current issues
include, but are not limited to, physical fitness and nutrition; weight management;
stress and emotional health; chemical use and abuse; issues in contemporary
human sexuality; communicable and noncommunicable disease; health-smart
consumerism; the contemporary healthcare system; aging and dying; and
environmental health issues. (This course is a NOT a PE activity course.)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
PE200 - Advanced Total Fitness
General Information
An advanced approach to physical fitness for more effective living. Combination of
lecture and lab stressing the importance of developing positive life-long fitness
activities. Course will include evaluation, prescription, program implementation,
and goal setting.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE100 - Total Fitness
---RIGHT---
PE201 - Sport Specific Conditioning
General Information
This course is designed to give advanced instruction for the physically active
student. Consideration of sport specific and individual fitness goals will be given.
Cardio conditioning; strength training; flexibility training, as well as the nutritional
aspects of physical performance will be taught.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PE100 - Total Fitness
PE208 - Intermediate Weight Training
General Information
This course is designed to develop cognitive knowledge pertaining to a higher level
of strength training and applying this knowledge in a daily weight lifting program.
Students will experience the benefits of weight lifting and will learn how to develop
a weight training program designed to meet their personal weight training goals.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE108 - Beginning Weight Training

@@@PAGE 409@@@
---LEFT---
PE222 - Intermediate Bowling
General Information
A course designed to allow the student to improrve his/her bowling skills.
Emphasis on spot, pin, and line bowling. Delivery and form and playing a hookball
will be emphasized.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE122 - Beginning Bowling
PE226 - Intermediate Badminton/Pickleball
General Information
Instruction dealing with the techniques of Badminton/Pickleball. This is an
intermediate level class dealing with playing strategies, tournaments, and
individual playing styles.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE126 - Beginning Badminton & Pickleball
PE233 - Advanced Basketball
General Information
A course designed for the advanced basketball player who has competed at a high
skill level. Special emphasis will be placed on advanced individual and team
concepts.
Components Credits
Lab 1
---RIGHT---
PE236 - Intermediate Volleyball
General Information
This course is designed to allow the student to improve upon his/her basic skills of
playing volleyball. To be able to compete and enjoy the sport on a recreational
level.
Components Credits
Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE136 - Volleyball
PE237 - Advanced Volleyball
General Information
This course is designed to give students the opportunity to improve their volleball
skills to an advanced level of play. Emphasis will be placed on skills and techniques
used as a competitive as well as recreational level.
Components Credits
Lab 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physical Education
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PE136 - Volleyball
PE241 - Baseball Techniques
General Information
A course in the fundamentals of baseball. Course content includes conditioning,
basic skills, strategies, team-play concepts and rules of the game.
Components Credits
Lab 1

@@@PAGE 410@@@
---LEFT---
PE285 - Coaching Theory
General Information
Provides the novice and experienced coach with the basic teaching and coaching
skills, techniques and strategies for coaching all sports and all ages. Includes
lectures, group discussions, guest speakers, and actual performance of skills and
techniques by individual class members. (This course is NOT a PE activity course.)
Components Credits
Lecture 2
PE292 - Advanced First Aid
General Information
The student will satisfy the requirements for advanced American Red Cross first
aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation certification (CPR). (This course is a NOT a
PE activity course.)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
PE295 - Teaching Elementary Physical Education and
Health
General Information
This course is designed to provide prospective K-6 educators with information,
methods, and activities for teaching elementary physical education and health.
Developmentally appropriate and quality physical education and health methods
will be emphasized.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
PE299 - Individual Study in Physical Education
General Information
An independent learning activity, designed jointly by the student and the instructor
to improve and/or increase the knowledge and skill of the learner.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission
Physics Department
For more information on our Physics department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/physics
Physics Department Chair: Ivan Ramirez - iramirez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 411@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 412@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and
Astronomy Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and Astronomy Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 -Physics and Astronomy Specialization
provides a well-rounded foundation for students planning to transfer to a
bachelor's program in physics, astronomy, or a closely related field.
Upon completion, students will be eligible to transfer with junior standing to most
Washington State baccalaureate institutions. Students transferring out of state
should work closely with their intended transfer institutions to understand how
courses in this degree will transfer.
Many classes required for this degree are offered only once or twice a year.
Students should work closely with Associate in Science advisors to plan their
programs of study, including elective courses.
This degree does NOT satisfy all General Education requirements of baccalaureate
institutions. Like students who begin their science studies at baccalaureate
institutions as freshmen, students who transfer with Associate in Science degrees
will typically be required to complete some general education requirements during
their junior and senior years.
Students pursuing this degree are strongly advised to contact their potential
transfer institutions early regarding the specific course choices in each area of the
degree. In addition, students should check with their potential transfer institutions
about minimum GPA requirements, possible higher minimum GPA requirements in
selected subsets of courses, and minimum grade requirements in specific courses.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits PHST2AS Code Fall 2025
90 PHYS_ASTRO
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above statement.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities, or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
---RIGHT---
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Communication Skills (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Composition Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Mathematics Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I
• MATH&152 - Calculus II
• MATH&153 - Calculus III
• MATH220 - Linear Algebra
• MATH238 - Elements of Differential Equations
• MATH&254 - Calculus IV
Humanities and Social Science (15 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Humanities or Social Science (15 Credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Humanities Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
AND
Humanities or Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Core Requirement (28 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Chemistry Courses (10 credits)

@@@PAGE 413@@@
---LEFT---
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CHEM&161 - General Chemistry w/Lab I
• CHEM&162 - General Chemistry w/Lab II
Physics (18 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
• PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and Magnetism
• PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
Electives (12 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
Complete 12 credits of college-level courses to reach a total of 90 credits.
• Elective courses should be selected based on transfer institution
and may include prerequisites for major courses (e.g.,
pre-calculus), additional major coursework, or specific general
education.
• No more than 5 credits in this category may be from courses that
are not listed on the 2025-2026 Approved Distribution Course
List.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
Recommended Courses:
ASTR&110 The Solar System - The Solar System
ASTR&115 Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos - Stars, Galaxies and the Cosmos
CHEM&163 General Chemistry w/Lab III - General Chemistry w/ Lab III
CS142 Java Programming for Engineers and Scientists I - Java Programming
for Engineers and Scientists I
ENGR&240 Engineering Computations - Engineering Computations
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the Multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Program Map
Associate in Science Transfer Track 2 - Physics and Astronomy Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics (SEM) Pathway
Advising.
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 414@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
PHYS&114 - General Physics I
General Information
Algebra-based physics for liberal arts students and certain professions.Study of
basic mechanics including position, velocity, acceleration, forces, momentum, and
energy. Laboratory included. Recommended Preparation: MATH& 141.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required Courses
Math at the 100 level with a minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently).
Recommended Preparation
MATH& 141
PHYS&115 - General Physics II
General Information
Algebra-based physics for liberal arts students and certain professions. Study of
thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, capacitance, and electric forces/fields/
potential/potential energy. Laboratory included. Recommended Preparation:
MATH& 141.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required Courses
Math at the 100 level with a minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently) and PHYS& 114 with a minimum grade of C
Recommended Preparation
MATH& 141
---RIGHT---
PHYS&116 - General Physics III
General Information
Algebra-based physics for liberal arts students and certain professions. Study of
DC circuits, magnetism, geometrical optics, wave optics, and modern physics.
Laboratory included. Recommended Preparation: MATH& 141.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Required courses
Math at the 100 level with minimum grade of C (may be taken
concurrently) and PHYS& 114 with a minimum grade of C
Recommended courses
MATH& 141 with a minimum grade of C
PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
General Information
Mechanics. Calculus based physics for engineering or those majoring in certain
sciences. Introduces problem solving techniques and applications to real world
situations. Topics include motions and causes of motion; conservation of energy,
momentum and angular momentum; gravitation, center of mass, and torque.
Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• MATH&151 - Calculus I

@@@PAGE 415@@@
---LEFT---
PHYS&222 - Engineering Physics - Electricity and
Magnetism
General Information
Electricity and Magnetism. Calculus based physics for engineering or those
majoring in certain sciences. Introduces problem solving techniques and
applications to real world situations. Topics include Coulomb's Law, Gauss' Laws,
circuits and circuit theory, electrical devices, Ampere's Law, electric and magnetic
flux, and induction. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physics
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
AND MATH&152 - Calculus II
PHYS&223 - Engineering Physics - Waves, Optics, and
Thermodynamics
General Information
Waves, Sound, Light and Thermodynamics. Calculus based physics for engineering
or those majoring in certain sciences. Introduces problem solving techniques and
applications to real world situations. Topics include oscillations, damping, waves,
interference, refraction, reflection, optical systems, fluids, specific heat,
temperature, ideal gasses, and states of matter. Laboratory included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Physics
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• PHYS&221 - Engineering Physics - Mechanics
Political Science Department
For more information on our Political Science department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/political-science
Political Science Department Chair: Katrina Taylor - ktaylor@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
PHYS299 - Independent Study
General Information
Independent observation, analysis, and reporting of a physics-related topic.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission.

@@@PAGE 416@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 417@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Political Science Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Political Science Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Political Science Specialization prepares students to transfer to a bachelor's
program in political science. In addition to the critical achievement of becoming a
well-informed citizen in a democratic system of governance, students who major in
Political Science gain a depth of knowledge, skills, and experience that can be
applied to a wide range of careers. Political science majors may become campaign
staffers, government employees, non-profit employees, business professionals,
grant writers, and journalists. With additional education, political science majors
can become lawyers, paralegals, educators, and researchers.
This specialization supports transfer to most Washington State baccalaureate
institutions with junior standing with most or all lower-division general education
requirements satisfied. Students planning to transfer out of state should consult
with their intended institution to ensure course transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 POLSCIENCE
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Political Science Specialization Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Foundation Courses
Complete at least 3 of the following courses:
• POLS&101 - Introduction to Political Science
• POLS&201 - Introduction to Political Theory
• POLS&202 - United States Government
• POLS&203 - International Relations
Electives
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• POLS231 - Politics and Film
• POLS240 - Environmental Politics and Sustainability
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 418@@@
---LEFT---
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENGL&102 Composition II: Argument and Persuasion - Composition II:
Argument and Persuasion
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural Communication
(Multicultural Course)
ENGL242 Contemporary Non-Western Literature - Contemporary
Non-Western Literature (Multicultural Course)
HUM130 Introduction to Film - Introduction to Film
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
---RIGHT---
Political Science Specialization Foundation Courses
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• POLS&101 - Introduction to Political Science
• POLS&201 - Introduction to Political Theory
• POLS&202 - United States Government
• POLS&203 - International Relations
AND
Additional Social Science Course
Course must be from a discipline outside of Political Science (POLS/
POLS&).
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences, Lab Course)
GEOG205 Physical Geography - Physical Geography (Biological, Earth, and
Physical Sciences, Lab Course)
SCI105 Introductory Topics in Natural Science - Introductory Topics in
Natural Science (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences, Lab Course)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Political Science Specialization Foundation Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• POLS&101 - Introduction to Political Science

@@@PAGE 419@@@
---LEFT---
• POLS&201 - Introduction to Political Theory
• POLS&202 - United States Government
• POLS&203 - International Relations
AND
Political Science Specialization Elective Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• POLS231 - Politics and Film
• POLS240 - Environmental Politics and Sustainability
AND
Additional Distribution Elective
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits from college-level courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than three PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Recommend Courses: Additional Political Science courses
Complete 10 credits of college-level electives.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement and
one distribution requirement. Please consult the listings under each
distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill both criteria.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 420@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
POLS&101 - Introduction to Political Science
General Information
This course is intended to serve as a comparative introduction to the concepts,
methods, and subject areas of the discipline of political science. Students will
explore various forms of political beliefs, behaviors, institutions, and processes at
the individual, group, national, and international levels. Strongly recommended for
those students with no prior coursework in political science.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirement
Type
Prerequisite
Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
POLS&201 - Introduction to Political Theory
General Information
This course provides a survey of the underlying philosophical ideas and ideologies
in the subfield of political science known as political theory. Some of the topics to
be considered include essentially contested concepts like democracy, freedom,
community, rights, citizenship, and justice which provide the philosophical
foundation for various competing political ideologies like classical and welfare
liberalism, conservatism, and socialism as well as contemporary debates on issues
such as political extremism, environmentalism, feminism, human rights, and
multiculturalism.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
POLS&202 - United States Government
General Information
This course is intended to provide a basic understanding of the American political
system. We will examine the structural foundations of American politics, including
our constitutional framework, political culture, and political economy. We will then
explore the various political institutions which serve as a link between citizens and
government, including public opinion, the mass media, interest groups, social
movements, political parties, and elections. Following this, we will turn our
attention to the branches of the federal government, including Congress, the
Presidency, the federal bureaucracy, and the Supreme Court.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
POLS&203 - International Relations
General Information
This course is intended to serve as an introduction to the concepts, methods, and
subject areas of the field of international relations within the discipline of political
science. Students will explore various forms of political beliefs, behaviors,
institutions, and processes shaping the relationships between states and other
non-governmental actors in the international system.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101

@@@PAGE 421@@@
---LEFT---
POLS231 - Politics and Film
General Information
This course will examine a variety of political and legal issues through their
portrayal in contemporary cinema. Students will read relevant Political Science
literature as a background for an analysis of the films viewed in the course.
Rotating themes include: elections and the presidency, law and justice, science
fiction, organized labor, and American foreign policy.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
POLS240 - Environmental Politics and Sustainability
General Information
This class examines the study of politics and policies surrounding sustainability
including definitions of sustainability; individual, local, state, national, and
international solutions to environmental problems; economics; environmental
justice; and business practices.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
Pre-Nursing Department
For more information on our Pre-Nursing Department: Pre-Nursing : Tacoma Community
Department Chair: Heather Cushman hcushman@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
POLS298 - Political Internship
General Information
Variable credit (1-5). Students will participate in internships with either a political
party, interest group, or an elected official and will meet periodically with the
instructor to discuss assigned readings and a research paper based on the
internship experience.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission
College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 422@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 423@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Pre-Nursing, DTA/MRP
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Pre-Nursing, Direct Transfer Agreement / Major Related Program
Catalog Description
The Associate in Pre-Nursing is a state-recognized Direct Transfer Agreement /
Major Related Program (DTA/MRP) designed for students planning to transfer to a
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program.
Admission to Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) programs is highly competitive.
Completion of the Associate in Pre-Nursing DTA/MRP degree does not guarantee
acceptance. Students are strongly encouraged to connect with their intended
transfer institutions early in their academic journey to understand specific
admission requirements. These may include prerequisite coursework, minimum
overall GPA, GPA thresholds for selected course categories, and minimum grade
expectations for individual courses.
Students are strongly encouraged to meet early with their TCC advisor to confirm
that their course selections meet all graduation and admission requirements.
Some courses are offered only once or twice a year and/or are sequential, so
timely program completion depends on careful quarterly class selection.
Whenever possible, students should complete math and science course sequences
at a single institution and avoid interrupting these sequences between schools.
Students completing this track are not eligible to take National Council Licensure
Examination (NCLEX) for Registered Nursing (RN) until they complete their BSN
program. Students seeking a direct pathway to RN licensure through TCC should
explore the Associate in Nursing, Direct Transfer Agreement / Major Related
Program .
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
90 RENPNAS Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who completed coursework at a college
other than TCC that they plan to apply to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• Students are advised to complete math and science course
sequences at a single institution.
• Individual credits may be counted in only one required area.
◦ The exception is the Multicultural Requirement –
students should use a Multicultural Designated course
from the Humanities or Social Sciences.
• No more than 3.0 credits of PE activity courses can be used to
satisfy degree requirements.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
Distribution Requirements (80 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
OR ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
Quantitative Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Humanities (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Communication Studies Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
• CMST&220 - Public Speaking
• CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
AND
Additional Humanities Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Social Science (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at last two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Psychology Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
AND
Additional Social Science Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses

@@@PAGE 424@@@
---LEFT---
Course must be from a subject other than PSYC/PSYC&
Natural Sciences (35 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&160 - General Cell Biology
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
• BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• BIOL&260 - General Microbiology
• CHEM&121 - Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry
• CHEM&131 - Introduction to Organic/Biochemistry
• NUTR&101 - Human Nutrition
Multicultural Course Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
A single course may be used to satisfy both the multicultural requirement
and a single Humanities or Social Science requirement. Please consult the
list under each distribution area requirement to identify courses that fulfill
both criteria.
Physical Education Requirement (3 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Physical Education Course
Earn at least 3 credits from the following:
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
Electives Requirement (7 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College Level Elective Courses
Complete 7 credits of college-level (100+) electives.
Recommended Course: COL101 College 101 - College 101
Program Map
Associate in Pre-Nursing, DTA/MRP Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Healthcare Pathways Advising
Degree Map Name
Associate in Pre-Nursing
Total Degree Map Credits
17
Degree Map Effective Catalog Year
-
Year Quarter Actual Credits Progress Credits
Year 1 Fall 17 10
---RIGHT---
Requirement Select
• COL101 - College 101
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits 5
Contact Hours 5
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits 5
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• MATH046 - Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 5
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Requirement Select
• PE100 - Total Fitness
Course Requirement Group
Course Requirement Group (Free -
Text)
Minimum Grade -
Area -
Actual Credits 2
Progress Credits -
Contact Hours -
Clinical -
Criticality No
Total General Education Credits Total Major Credits
0 0
Total Minor Credits Total Elective Credits
0 0

@@@PAGE 425@@@
---LEFT---
Psychology Department
For more information on our Psychology department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/psychology
Psychology Department Chair: Andrew Cho - acho@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 426@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 427@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Psychology Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Psychology Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Psychology Specialization offers students a strong foundation in the scientific
study of human behavior and mental processes. This is approached through an
intersectional lens that considers how culture, identity, and social structures shape
individuals and societies.
This specialization prepares students to transfer into bachelor's degree programs
in psychology and related disciplines at most Washington State public
baccalaureate institutions, while also developing critical thinking, analytical, and
communication skills applicable to a variety of fields. Students planning to transfer
to institutions outside Washington should consult with their intended transfer
school to ensure course compatibility and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 PSYCHOLOGY
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Psychology Specialization Requirements (30 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Psychology Core Courses (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• PSYC202 - Biopsychology
• PSYC209 - Fundamentals of Psychological Research
Psychology Foundation Courses (10 credits)
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• PSYC&180 - Human Sexuality
• PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
• PSYC205 - Introduction to Personality
• PSYC&220 - Psychological Disorders
• PSYC240 - Social Psychology
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills Course (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.

@@@PAGE 428@@@
---LEFT---
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing: Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGL&102 Composition II: Argument and Persuasion - Composition II:
Argument and Persuasion
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Psychology Specialization Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH46 Co-requisite for Statistics -
MATH& 146.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
---RIGHT---
Recommend choosing from:
CMST&101 Introduction to Communication - Introduction to
Communication
PHIL&101 Introduction to Philosophy - Introduction to Philosophy
World Language Courses (Multicultural Courses)
Social Science Distribution Courses
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• No more than 10 credits from any one discipline.
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Psychology Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• PSYC202 - Biopsychology
AND
Social Science Additional Discipline Course
Select 5 credits from the Social Science distribution course list from a
discipline other than Psychology (PSYC/PSYC&)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommend choosing from:
ANTH&100 Survey of Anthropology - Survey of Anthropology
(Multicultural Course)
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Recommend choosing from:
BIOL&100 Survey of Biology - Survey of Biology (Biological, Earth, and
Physical Sciences, Lab Course)
BIOL&175 Human Biology w/Lab - Human Biology w/ Lab (Biological, Earth,

@@@PAGE 429@@@
---LEFT---
and Physical Sciences)
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology (Biological,
Earth, and Physical Sciences)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Psychology Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC209 - Fundamentals of Psychological Research
AND
Psychology Specialization Foundation Courses
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• PSYC&180 - Human Sexuality
• PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
• PSYC205 - Introduction to Personality
• PSYC&220 - Psychological Disorders
• PSYC240 - Social Psychology
College-Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Recommended Courses:
SOC120 Introduction to Women's Studies - Introduction to Women's
Studies (Multicultural Course)
SOC262 Race and Ethnic Relations - Race and Ethnic Relations
(Multicultural Course)
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Psychology Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Social Science Distribution to
fulfill up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural
requirement, one specialization requirement, and one distribution
requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
---RIGHT---
Recommended Course:
PSYC&200 Lifespan Psychology - Lifespan Psychology (Psychology
Specialization Foundation Course, Social Science Distribution, & Multicultural
Course)
Program Map
Associate of Arts, DTA - Psychology Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 430@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
PSYC&100 - General Psychology
General Information
Introduction to psychology as an academic discipline, including research methods,
the nervous system, heredity and development, social behavior, motivation,
emotion, learning and memory, cognition, personality, and psychological disorders.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Completion Requirement
English & College Preparation
Courses are recommended prior to taking this course or can be taken
concurrently. If you are not comfortable with writing, consider taking
WRITE96 Writing Center Tutorials to support you in this class.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• COL101 - College 101
PSYC&180 - Human Sexuality
General Information
A scientific approach to the study of human sexuality and sexual behavior,
including physiological and psychological components. Considers sexuality across
the lifespan, sexual dysfunction and therapy, STDs and safer sex, LGBT issues,
pregnancy and contraception, communication and relationships.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
General Information
An examination of the physical, social, emotional, and intellectual development of
the human from conception to death through a multicultural lens. A scientific
approach is applied, which aims to explain growth, change, consistency and
variations in development through the lifespan. Topics covered include heredity/
epigenetics, sex and gender development, socialization influences/ parenting,
trauma, identity formation, mid-life challenges, and practices surrounding death
and dying. (Multicultural) (Writing Intensive)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
PSYC&220 - Psychological Disorders
General Information
Thsi course provides an integrative approach to understanding the development
and symptoms of mental disorders. Students explore the psychological, biological
and sociocultural factors that contribute to mental illness, with an emphasis on
theories of abnormal behavior. Clinical assessment, diagnosis and treatment of the
major mental disorders of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders-5th edition (DSM-5) are explored. Some of the topics that are covered
include depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorders, personality disorders and
schizophrenia. Recommended for students interested in counseling or clinical
psychology.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology

@@@PAGE 431@@@
---LEFT---
PSYC092 - Job Search Skills
General Information
A Department of Corrections Offender Change course focused on re-entry to help
prepare offenders for successful integration into communities upon release from
prison. Students focus on the process of finding employment.
PSYC202 - Biopsychology
General Information
Biopsychology examines the biological basis of behavior, the nervous system, how
it works to control behavior and sense the world, and what happens when it
malfunctions. Topics include learning and memory, development, sex, drugs, sleep,
the senses, emotions, and mental disorders. Course is intended for Psychology
majors intending to transfer, especially to UW-Seattle or to the BS program at PLU.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Prerequisite: PSYC& 100 with a minimum grade of C ENGL& 101 with a
minimum grade of C or concurrent enrollment Recommended
Preparation: Taking BIOL& 175 (Human Biology) prior to or along with
Biopsychology may help student success.
PSYC205 - Introduction to Personality
General Information
Introduction to development and dynamics of personality, the causes of individual
differences, personality change and techniques of measuring personality. A broad
range of perspectives will be covered, including psychodynamic, biological, and
cognitive. This is especially useful for those with interests in counseling and clinical
psychology
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
---RIGHT---
PSYC209 - Fundamentals of Psychological Research
General Information
This course covers the key themes and concepts of psychological research and is a
foundation course for students planning to take additional courses in psychology.
Topics include hypothesis testing, experimental design, research strategies and
techniques, fundamentals of scientific writing, search and evaluation of research
literature in psychology, and ethical issues in psychological research.
(Writing-Intensive Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
PSYC240 - Social Psychology
General Information
An introduction to the study of the basic principles underlying the field of social
psychology. Topics covered will include social beliefs and attitudes, prejudice,
aggression, attraction and intimacy, conformity and persuasion.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology

@@@PAGE 432@@@
---LEFT---
PSYC299 - Individual Study in Psychology
General Information
A variable credit (1-3) course based on independent study contracted between an
instructor and a student. The emphasis will be a research related project which will
provide an opportunity for students to pursue in-depth in an area previously or
concurrently covered in a college-level course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Psychology
Prerequisite: PSYC& 100 with a minimum grade of B+ AND Instructor
permission
PSYC301 - Fundamentals of Research for Healthcare
General Information
This course will provide the student with an introduction to research methods as
well as analysis and presentation of data. Topics will include a statistical analysis of
healthcare data, descriptive, inferential, and vital statistics, data reporting and
presentation techniques, research design and methods, and the use of Institutional
Review Boards.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiology
Prerequisite: (Acceptance into the HIM BAS Program or Instructor
permission) AND ENGL& 101 with a minimum grade of C AND MATH&
146 with a minimum grade of C
Radiologic Science Department
Radiological Science website: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/radiologic-science/
Department email: radiology@tacomacc.edu
Chair: Lielie Jarvis - ljarvis@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 433@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 434@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Radiologic Science
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate of Applied Science in Radiologic Science
Catalog Description
TCC's Radiologic Science program prepares students for employment as
Radiologic Technologists and leads to an Associate in Applied Sciences (AAS)
degree. Clinical practice is performed in program affiliated hospitals and clinic
imaging centers. TCC’s Radiologic Science program is in Diagnostic Radiography
only. The program courses are offered sequentially and students should plan to
attend full time.
Graduates of the Radiologic Science program are eligible to apply to take the
national certification examination administered by the American Registry of
Radiologic Technologists. Successful completion of the registry examination results
in national certification as a Registered Radiologic Technologist, RT (R) ARRT.
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
114 MRTRSAPT Spring 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Prerequisite Coursework
• Minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA in prerequisite courses.
• Minimum C (2.0) in each prerequisite course.
• Students who completed prerequisite coursework at a college
other than TCC must submit an official transcript to
Enrollment Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency.
For details, visit Enrollment Services - Transfer Credits to
TCC.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
• BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
OR MATH&141 - Precalculus I
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
OR CMST&210 - Interpersonal Communication
OR CMST&220 - Public Speaking
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
Equivalent or higher level courses may be substituted
Degree Requirements
Type
---RIGHT---
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 114 quarter credit hours in courses numbered
100 or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable 114 credits must be earned at
Tacoma Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
Core Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Quarter 1 (17 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS100 - Radiologic Science Orientation
• RS108 - Radiation Physics I
• RS140 - Radiographic Positioning I with Simulation
• RS170 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
Quarter 2 (16 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS120 - Clinical Education I
• RS141 - Radiographic Positioning II with Simulation
• RS160 - Digital Image Production and Exposure I
Quarter 3 (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS121 - RS Clinical Education II
• RS142 - Radiographic Positioning III with Simulation
• RS271 - Fundamentals of Patient Care II
Quarter 4 (13 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS122 - RS Clinical Education III
Quarter 5 (15 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS109 - Radiation Physics II
• RS225 - RS Clinical Education IV
• RS243 - Radiographic Positioning IV with Simulation
Quarter 6 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS226 - RS Clinical Education V
• RS244 - Radiographic Positioning V with Simulation
• RS260 - Digital Image Production & Exposure II
Quarter 7 (12 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RS227 - RS Clinical Education VI
• RS230 - Radiographic Professional Advancement &
Organization
• RS255 - Advanced Imaging Modalities
Quarter 8 (14 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:

@@@PAGE 435@@@
---LEFT---
• RS228 - RS Clinical Education VII
• RS290 - Radiography Registry Review
Program Accreditation
Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic
Technology
20 N. Wacker Drive Last Accreditation Review Accreditation Letter
Suite 2850 2023 2024 JRCERT Award
Chicago, IL 60606-3182 Letter TCC.pdf
https://www.jrcert.org/
Courses
RS100 - Radiologic Science Orientation
General Information
This course introduces students to the Radiologic Science Program. Students learn
and interpret the program's mission and goals, professional requirements, and
commitment necessary for success. The students will apply understanding of how
to operate the lab equipment to better prepare them for instruction. This course
will implement, present, and prepare students for the clinical arena through
modules created by our affiliates to gain entry to their clinical rotation. This course
will introduce student resources available for virtual and on-campus support.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Radiologic Science Program.
RS101 - Fundamentals of Radiologic Science and Health
Care
General Information
Content is designed to provide a foundation of the principles, practices and policies
in healthcare and particularly radiology. The student will be introduced to the
history of radiology, medicolegal ethics and professional associations. Radiation
protection and safety, basic equipment operation, and principles of radiographic
exposure will also be covered.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
---RIGHT---
RS108 - Radiation Physics I
General Information
This course introduces the concepts of electromagnetic radiation, its production,
control, and interactions. The concepts of electricity, electromagnetism, and
electrical circuits relating to imaging equipment operation are presented.This
course will focus on radiation physics and instrumentation.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS160 - Digital Image Production and Exposure I

@@@PAGE 436@@@
---LEFT---
RS109 - Radiation Physics II
General Information
A continuation of Radiation Physics I. The correct and safe operation of various
types of imaging equipment will be discussed. Information on radiation biology will
be presented to correlate the hazards of ionizing radiation production and its
interaction on human tissue. This course will focus on radiation biology and health
physics.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS108 - Radiation Physics I
RS120 - Clinical Education I
General Information
Initial course in competency based radiography clinical education. Students orient
to an assigned clinical education center and by instruction, observation, and
experience, acquire the necessary basic skills to successfully image patients
utilizing ionizing radiation.
Components Credits
Clinical 7
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiology
RS 140 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 108 with a minimum grade of
C AND Medical clearance, required drug screen, WSP AND Verified
Credentials background check, proof of medical insurance, current CPR
card or Instructor permission
---RIGHT---
RS121 - RS Clinical Education II
General Information
This is a continuation of a series of competency based clinical education classes.
Students attend an assigned clinical education center and by instruction,
observation, and experience, acquire the necessary skills to successfully image
patients utilizing ionizing radiation.
Components Credits
Clinical 7
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Medical clearance, required drug screen, WSP AND Verified Credentials
background check, proof of medical insurance, current CPR card or
Instructor permission.
Radiology Courses
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• RS120 - Clinical Education I
• RS141 - Radiographic Positioning II with Simulation
RS122 - RS Clinical Education III
General Information
This is a continuation of a series of competency based clinical education classes.
Students attend an assigned clinical education center and by instruction,
observation, and experience, acquire the necessary skills to successfully image
patients utilizing X-ray ionizing radiation.
Components Credits
Clinical 13
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 121 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 142 with a
minimum grade of C AND Medical clearance, required drug screen, WSP
AND Verified Credentials background check, proof of medical insurance,
current CPR card or Instructor permission

@@@PAGE 437@@@
---LEFT---
RS140 - Radiographic Positioning I with Simulation
General Information
This class studies basic positioning principles and terminology. It includes
demonstration and lab experience in positioning and identifying related anatomy
of the chest, abdomen, upper and lower extremities.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 6
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Acceptance into the Radiologic Science Program.
RS141 - Radiographic Positioning II with Simulation
General Information
This course studies basic Radiographic positioning principles and terminology. It
includes demonstration and lab experience in positioning and identifying related
anatomy of the femur, hip, pelvis, spine, and bony thorax.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS140 - Radiographic Positioning I with Simulation
---RIGHT---
RS142 - Radiographic Positioning III with Simulation
General Information
This course studies basic Radiographic positioning principles and terminology. It
includes demonstration and lab experience in positioning and identifying related
anatomy of the cranium, facial bones, and paranasal sinuses. This course will host
an overview of fluoroscopic radiographic procedures including the biliary tract,
upper and lower gastrointestinal system, and the urinary system. Common
contrast media exams will be included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS141 - Radiographic Positioning II with Simulation
RS150 - Principles of Image Formation
General Information
This class discusses the factors that are involved in radiographic image formation.
Exposure factors and geometric factors that are involved in this process are
covered.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into Radiologic Science Program or Instructor
permission

@@@PAGE 438@@@
---LEFT---
RS153 - Principles of Digital Radiography
General Information
This class introduces principles of digital radiography. Basic principles of computer
operation as well as its relevancy to image formation with computed radiography
(CR) and digital radiography (DR) will be presented.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS150 - Principles of Image Formation
RS160 - Digital Image Production and Exposure I
General Information
This course is an introduction of digital radiographic image production and
exposure factors. Exposure factors and image acquisition involved in general
radiographic imaging will be covered. Basic principles of computer components and
computer operation, as well as its relevancy to image formation with all forms of
digital radiography will be presented.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Radiologic Sciences Program
---RIGHT---
RS170 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
General Information
This course introduces patient care techniques commonly experienced in a
radiology department. Proper body mechanics, patient vitals, sterile procedures,
patient communication, HIPAA requirements, and emergency code procedures will
be covered throughout the course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Acceptance into Radiologic Science Program or Instructor permission
RS200 - Pathology & Cross Sectional Anatomy
General Information
A basic review of pathology and pathologic processes as demonstrated on different
imaging modalities is presented. A basic review for general radiographers of human
anatomy will be studied in cross section. Anatomy of the head, neck, thorax,
abdomen, pelvis, and musculoskeletal system will be presented in transverse, axial,
sagittal, coronal, and orthogonal (oblique) cross sectional imaging planes will be
demonstrated using multiple diagnostic imaging modalities.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Biology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
AND BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2

@@@PAGE 439@@@
---LEFT---
RS214 - Imaging Pathology
General Information
A basic review of pathology and pathologic processes as demonstrated on
diagnostic images is presented. The images for review include radiographic, and
cross sectional CT and MRI images.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS122 - RS Clinical Education III
RS216 - Pharmacology and IV Therapy
General Information
This class involves a study of drugs common to an imaging department. The general
pharmacologic principles, drug categories, routes of administration, drug
administration safety, and current practice standards will be discussed. A
discussion of contrast agents and their associated reactions will also be presented.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS170 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
---RIGHT---
RS225 - RS Clinical Education IV
General Information
Students entering their second year in clinical will continue to learn new
radiographic examinations while maintaining proficiency on previous exams. The
students incorporate critical thinking skills and correlate them with previous
experiences to enhance their ability to function more independently.
Components Credits
Clinical 8
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 122 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 142 with a
minimum grade of C AND Medical clearance, WSP AND Verified
Credentials background check, required drug screen, proof of medical
insurance, current CPR card or Instructor permission
RS226 - RS Clinical Education V
General Information
Students in the second year of competency based clinical instruction rotate to a
new clinical education center and by instruction, observation, and experience,
continue to acquire new skills while refining and maintaining proficiency in
previously learned examinations. Students incorporate critical thinking skills and
correlate it with previous experiences to enhance their ability to function more
independently.
Components Credits
Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 225 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 243 with a
minimum grade of C AND Medical clearance, WSP AND Verified
Credentials background check, required drug screen, proof of medical
insurance, current CPR card or Instructor permission

@@@PAGE 440@@@
---LEFT---
RS227 - RS Clinical Education VI
General Information
Students in the second year of competency based clinical instruction are assigned
to a clinical education center and by instruction, observation, and experience,
continue to acquire new skills while refining and maintaining proficiency in
previously learned examinations. Students incorporate critical thinking skills and
correlate it with previous experiences to enhance their ability to function more
independently.
Components Credits
Clinical 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 226 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 244 with a
minimum grade of C AND Medical clearance, WSP AND Verified
Credentials background check, required drug screen, proof of medical
insurance, AND current CPR card or Instructor permission
RS228 - RS Clinical Education VII
General Information
This is a capstone competency based clinical class in preparation for entry level
clinical practice. Students in the second year of instruction are assigned to a clinical
education center and continue to acquire new skills, while refining and maintaining
proficiency in previously learned examinations. Students incorporate critical
thinking skills and correlate it with previous experiences to enhance their ability to
function more independently.
Components Credits
Clinical 10
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 227 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 244 with a
minimum grade of C AND Medical clearance, WSP AND Verified
Credentials background check, required drug screen, proof of medical
insurance, AND current CPR card or Instructor permission
---RIGHT---
RS230 - Radiographic Professional Advancement &
Organization
General Information
This personal and professional development course is designed to help students
achieve their final goals towards becoming a registered Radiologic Technologist.
The student will focus on organizing their portfolio, creating a professional
development plan, and professional resume. The student will learn techniques
towards continued professionalism, ensuring best practices in the healthcare team
environment. The student will learn the full accreditation process of institutions,
programs, and healthcare facilities. This course will thoroughly cover all regulatory
agencies that have influence on the radiologic science profession.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 226 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 244 with a
minimum grade of C or Instructor Permission
RS233 - Leadership and Management
General Information
Studies leadership skills associated with patient care and management. Concepts
discussed will include: supervision, delegation, conflict resolution, leadership
styles, the work environment, responsibility, accountability, collaboration and rsum
preparation.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS225 - RS Clinical Education IV

@@@PAGE 441@@@
---LEFT---
RS243 - Radiographic Positioning IV with Simulation
General Information
Advanced Patient procedures involving trauma, pediatric, and patients with
disabilities. Demonstration and lab experience of advanced scenario imaging,
mobile imaging, and surgical imaging. Special focus on patients with altered mental
status and imaging patients in restraints.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Course Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Courses
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS142 - Radiographic Positioning III with Simulation
• RS122 - RS Clinical Education III
or instructor permission
RS244 - Radiographic Positioning V with Simulation
General Information
Advanced patient care procedures involving pediatric and/or severe trauma
patient. Special emphasis on child and elder abuse. Includes information for the
geriatric, pediatric and patient with disabilities to meet The Joint Commission
requirements.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
---RIGHT---
RS250 - Advanced Healthcare Organization
General Information
A closer look at the healthcare organization with emphasis on radiology. Radiology
quality control and quality assurance factors will be presented. The five major
content areas of diagnostic imaging will be correlated with quality patient care.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
RS 244 with a minimum grade of C and RS 101 with a minimum grade of C
or Instructor permission
Or instructor permission
RS255 - Advanced Imaging Modalities
General Information
An overview of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, diagnostic
medical sonography and other advanced imaging modalities. The emphasis will be
on the various energy types used to generate images, the equipment utilized and
other dynamics of the imaging environment. This course will have a clinical
rotation component to some of the imaging modalities offered at our affiliate
medical centers.
Components Credits
Lecture, Clinical 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 226 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 244 with a
minimum grade of C AND Second year Radiologic Science student. or
Instructor permission.

@@@PAGE 442@@@
---LEFT---
RS260 - Digital Image Production & Exposure II
General Information
This course further explores digital radiographic image production and exposure
factors. Image acquisition errors and appropriate exposure factor formulation are
discussed and demonstrated. Evaluate and describe the use of technical factors,
procedural factors and clinical factors on image quality and assessment. A
thorough review of imaging artifacts and corrective quality assurance actions.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiological Sciences
Prerequisite: RS 160 with a minimum grade of C AND RS 142 with a
minimum grade of C or Instructor Permission
RS271 - Fundamentals of Patient Care II
General Information
This course presents students with continued practice and validation in the lab
learning environment of the knowledge and skills to provide safe patient care
within an imaging department. This course involves the study of drugs and contrast
agents common to an imaging department and their associated reactions. The
general pharmacologic principles, drug categories, routes and administration drug
administration safety, and current practice standards will be discussed and learned
in the lab environment. This course presents Foley catheterization, basic patient
care procedures, and handling and disposing of toxic materials.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Radiology
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RS170 - Fundamentals of Patient Care
AND RS141 - Radiographic Positioning II with Simulation
---RIGHT---
RS280 - Computed Tomography
General Information
This course presents CT imaging basics and contrasts it with conventional X-ray
imaging.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
RS290 - Radiography Registry Review
General Information
This course will provide an essential review of topics covered during an eight
quarter program at TCC. It will emphasize and accentuate past course learning
outcomes which will enable students to pass the American Registry of Radiologic
Technology (ARRT) examination. This will be accomplished by an in-depth review
of the content categories presented on the ARRT's registry exam.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
No Requirements
RS299 - Independent Study
General Information
Independent learning activity, designed jointly by the student and instructor, to
improve and/or increase the knowledge and skill of the learner.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Chair Permission
Prerequisite: Program Chair permission

@@@PAGE 443@@@
---LEFT---
Respiratory Therapy Department
Webpage: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/your-tcc-path/healthcare/respiratory-therapy/
Email: healthprograms@tacomacc.edu
Department Chair: Greg Carter - gcarter@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 444@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 445@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Applied Science in Respiratory Therapy
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Applied Science in Respiratory Therapy
Catalog Description
The Respiratory Therapy program prepares students for employment as
respiratory care practitioners . The program is full time and sequential, consisting
of seven instructional quarters offered during daytime hours. Students complete
classroom and laboratory course work on campus and gain clinical experience in
affiliated clinical sites.
Graduates of the Respiratory program are eligible to take the Therapist
Multiple-Choice Examination (TMC) administered by the National Board for
Respiratory Care (NBRC). The TMC exam is designed to objectively measure
essential knowledge, skills, and abilities required of entry-level respiratory
therapists, as well as determine eligibility for the Clinical Simulation Examination.
There are two established cut scores for the TMC exam. If a candidate achieves the
lower cut score, they will earn the Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) credential.
If a candidate achieves the higher cut score, they will earn the CRT credential AND
become eligible for the Clinical Simulation Examination to earn their Registered
Respiratory Therapist (RRT) credential. Currently, the CRT is the minimum
credential required for licensure in 40 of the 49 states (Alaska doesn't require
licensure at this time). The remaining 9 states, including Washington, require the
RRT credential. Graduates are encouraged to earn their advanced credential (RRT)
as more and more states are moving to RRT as the minimum requirement for
licensure.
To practice, respiratory therapists must be licensed by the state as respiratory care
practitioners. Licensure requirements typically include completing an accredited
training program, passing a background check, and obtaining the Certified
Respiratory Therapist (CRT) and/or Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT)
credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).
Admission to this program is not guaranteed upon general TCC admission.
Students must complete a secondary selective admission process. Students are
strongly encouraged to consult with an academic advisor and review the program’s
webpage for detailed information on application deadlines, selection criteria, and
required documentation. Admission is competitive and there are usually more
program applicants than available positions. Students who complete program
prerequisite and co-requisite courses and meet the other application requirements
are not guaranteed program admission.
Total Number of Credits ctcLink Plan Code Effective Term
109 RTTRTAPT Fall 2025
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
Admission Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Prerequisite Coursework
• Minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA in prerequisite courses.
• Minimum C (2.0) in each prerequisite course.
• ALL prerequisite courses must be complete (with a final
grade) prior to submitting an application.
• All math and science prerequisite courses must be completed
within the past 10 years.
---RIGHT---
• Students who completed prerequisite coursework at a college
other than TCC must submit an official transcript to
Enrollment Services for evaluation. All coursework must be
from a regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency.
For details, visit Enrollment Services - Transfer Credits to
TCC.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• BIOL&241 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 1
• BIOL&242 - Human Anatomy and Physiology 2
• HIT130 - Medical Terminology I
OR HIT105 - Comprehensive Medical Terminology
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
OR PSYC&200 - Lifespan Psychology
Additional Comments:
Degree Requirements
Type
Completion Requirement
Additional Comments:
• A minimum of 109 quarter credit hours in courses numbered
100 or above.
• At least 25% of the applicable 109 credits must be earned at
Tacoma Community College.
• A combined cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the
coursework that is applied to the degree.
Core Requirements (100-104 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
First Quarter (Fall)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC175 - Respiratory Care Orientation
• RC150 - Fundamentals of Respiratory Care I
• RC160 - Applied Cardiopulmonary Anatomy and Physiology
• RC180 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical I
• RC193 - Respiratory Pharmacology I
Note: RC 175 is a week-long class that is completed between Summer and
Fall Quarters
Second Quarter (Winter)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC151 - Fundamentals of Respiratory Care II
• RC161 - Arterial Blood Gases
• RC171 - Respiratory Therapy Equipment II
• RC181 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical II
• RC194 - Respiratory Pharmacology II
Third Quarter (Spring)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC152 - Introduction into Mechanical Ventilation
• RC162 - Advanced RC Pathophysiology
• RC172 - Respiratory Therapy Equipment III
• RC182 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical III
• RC195 - Respiratory Pharmacology III

@@@PAGE 446@@@
---LEFT---
Fourth Quarter (Summer)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
• RC153 - Alternative Procedures in Respiratory Care
• RC165 - Evolving Roles in Respiratory Therapy
• RC183 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical IV
• RC290 - Ethics and Professionalism in Respiratory Care
Fifth Quarter (Fall)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC192 - Advanced Mechanical Ventilation
• RC240 - Advanced Assessment and Diagnosis
• RC263 - Pulmonary Functions
• RC280 - RC Specialty Clinical I
Sixth Quarter (Winter)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC251 - Respiratory Pathophysiology Case Presentations
• RC261 - Pediatric and Neonatal Respiratory Care
• RC281 - Advanced Critical Care Clinical Rotation
• CU100 - Introduction to Practical Computing
OR CU102 - Word I
OR CU103 - Excel I
OR CU104 - PowerPoint
OR CU105 - Word I & Excel I
OR CU108 - Outlook
OR CU110 - Access I
OR CU202 - Word II
OR CU203 - Excel II
Seventh Quarter (Spring)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• RC262 - Review of Applications of Respiratory Care
• RC272 - Pulmonary Rehabilitation, Home Care, and
Assistance in Specialty Procedures
• RC282 - Neonatal Clinical Rotation
• RC283 - Specialty Clinical Rotation II
Optional (1-5 credits)
Individual Study
RC299 Individual Study in Respiratory Therapy - Individual Study in
Respiratory Therapy
Program Accreditation
Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care
(COARC)
264 Precision Blvd Last Accreditation Review
Telford, TN 37690 July 2020
817-283-2835
https://coarc.com/
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 447@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
RC150 - Fundamentals of Respiratory Care I
General Information
Introduces the beginning respiratory care student to basic procedures and skills
required in the field. Covers principles and practices of patient assessment,
hospital safety, aerosol therapy, bronchial hygiene and hyperinflation therapies.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Accepted into the Respiratory Care Program
RC151 - Fundamentals of Respiratory Care II
General Information
Course will continue to build on the clinical skills and knowledge base acquired in
RC 150. The Respiratory Care student will be introduced to the critical care
environment this quarter. Emphasis is placed on airway management, diagnostic
testing and non-Invasive ventilation.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC150 - Fundamentals of Respiratory Care I
---RIGHT---
RC152 - Introduction into Mechanical Ventilation
General Information
Course will continue to build on the clinical skills and knowledge base acquired in
RC 150 & 151. This course is to introduce the respiratory student to basic concepts
in Mechanical Ventilation including initiation of mechanical ventilation, modes of
ventilation, ventilator management and weaning.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• RC151 - Fundamentals of Respiratory Care II
RC153 - Alternative Procedures in Respiratory Care
General Information
This course will provide students with knowledge regarding special procedures
they will be assisting physicians in performing as well as introducing additional
skills based upon Respiratory Care Scope of Practice. Information presented will
build upon previously studied pathophysiologies as well as set-up, procedural skills
and processing of specimens obtained when applicable. The course will be a
combination of lecture and lab skills practice.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC152 - Introduction into Mechanical Ventilation

@@@PAGE 448@@@
---LEFT---
RC160 - Applied Cardiopulmonary Anatomy and
Physiology
General Information
Course is designed to provide students with information about the structure and
function of the respiratory system. Knowledge of a structure is essential to the
understanding of the function of the structures, therefore topics include:
respiratory and cardiac anatomy and progress to major concepts and mechanisms
of cardiopulmonary physiology.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Respiratory Care Program.
RC161 - Arterial Blood Gases
General Information
Course is designed to provide students with additional information about the
function of the respiratory system. The student will gain knowledge and
interpretation skills regarding the function of gas exchange in the lungs as well as
how normal blood gas values change in different disease states. Included will be a
comprehensive overview of the subject matter in an organized, interesting manner
in the form of lecture, small group discussion, or student presentations.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC160 - Applied Cardiopulmonary Anatomy and Physiology
---RIGHT---
RC162 - Advanced RC Pathophysiology
General Information
Course is designed to provide students with advanced information about disease
processes. General pathophysiology provides a foundation of information for the
student to apply in the specialty area of respiratory care. Included will be a
comprehensive overview of the disease process in an organized, interesting
manner in the form of lecture, small group discussion, or student presentations.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC161 - Arterial Blood Gases
RC165 - Evolving Roles in Respiratory Therapy
General Information
This course introduces students to current and future trends in health care.
Specifically, this course will cover traditional and new roles for respiratory
therapists and will present possibilities and tactics for respiratory therapists to
work across the range of patient care.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptane
Prerequisite: Enrolled in the RC program

@@@PAGE 449@@@
---LEFT---
RC171 - Respiratory Therapy Equipment II
General Information
Course is designed to provide first-year RC students with a background on the
principles and technologies of emergency airway management, tracheostomy
management, non-invasive patient monitoring, bedside pulmonary function
assessment, true volume measuring devices vs. pneumotachometer devices, and
RC home medical equipment including patient comfort and compliance issues.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC175 - Respiratory Care Orientation
RC172 - Respiratory Therapy Equipment III
General Information
Course will provide the principles and technologies for the student to assimilate
and interrelate technical and physiological criteria for treating patients on
mechanical ventilation (CMV). Students learn logical thinking required to
troubleshoot ventilator problems in the ICU and utilize different types of
ventilators to gain confidence, proficiency, and appreciate the level of
sophistication to which modern ventilators have risen.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC171 - Respiratory Therapy Equipment II
---RIGHT---
RC175 - Respiratory Care Orientation
General Information
Course will provide application of the basic skills required for patient care. The
students will learn essential body mechanics to avoid injury; infection control
principles; required confidentiality information; legal and ethical principles; and an
introduction to vital signs. Students will also complete CPR certification, HIV/AIDS
certification for healthcare providers, and receive their program student
handbooks.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Respiratory Care Program
RC180 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical I
General Information
Course is designed to prepare the beginning Respiratory Care student to perform
basic respiratory therapeutic modalities in the hospital setting. Emphasis is placed
on patient assessment techniques, oxygen therapy, and bronchial hygiene. This
class consists of a lab/clinical rotation.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab, Clinical 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Accepted into the Respiratory Care Program

@@@PAGE 450@@@
---LEFT---
RC181 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical II
General Information
Course will continue to build on the clinical skills and knowledge base acquired in
first quarter. The Respiratory Care student will be introduced to the critical care
environment this quarter. Emphasis is placed on airway management, ECG's,
arterial blood gases, non-invasive ventilation and CPAP. This class consists of a lab/
clinical rotation.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab, Clinical 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC180 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical I
RC182 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical III
General Information
Course is intended to prepare the third quarter Respiratory Care student to care
for patients in the Intensive Care Unit. Topics covered will include the initiation and
care of the patient receiving mechanical ventilation and special RC procedures.
This class consists of a lab/clinical rotation.
Components Credits
Lab, Clinical 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC181 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical II
---RIGHT---
RC183 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical IV
General Information
This is the final clinical course of the first year of the respiratory program. Students
are expected to use this time at the clinical sites to polish their clinical skills,
improve their time management skills and increase their comfort level and
autonomy in the clinical setting in order to be prepared for the advanced clinical
courses in the second program year.
Components Credits
Clinical 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC182 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical III
RC192 - Advanced Mechanical Ventilation
General Information
Course content will emphasize advanced mechanical ventilator applications
including non-conventional approaches to patient management in both adult and
the pediatric/neonatal settings.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC152 - Introduction into Mechanical Ventilation

@@@PAGE 451@@@
---LEFT---
RC193 - Respiratory Pharmacology I
General Information
This is the first in a series of three courses in pharmacology. General
pharmacological principles, drug classification, computations, routes of delivery
and respiratory medication are emphasized.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Respiratory Care Program.
RC194 - Respiratory Pharmacology II
General Information
This is the second in a series of three courses in pharmacology dealing with
principles of mucolytics, antiasthmatics, antimicrobials, anti-inflammatory agents,
surface-active and special applications.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC193 - Respiratory Pharmacology I
---RIGHT---
RC195 - Respiratory Pharmacology III
General Information
This is the third in a series of three courses in pharmacology dealing with principles
in cold and cough agents, neonatal/pediatric aerosolized drug therapy, diuretics,
cardiovascular pharmacology and the drugs affecting the central nervous system.
Components Credits
Lecture 1
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC194 - Respiratory Pharmacology II
RC240 - Advanced Assessment and Diagnosis
General Information
Course will provide second year students with information necessary to care for
the critically ill patient. Advanced assessment and diagnosis takes general
knowledge learned in first year theory classes and further analyzes patient
assessment values to help students make more informed decisions regarding
interventions necessary to support the respiratory patient during stabilization and
care.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC153 - Alternative Procedures in Respiratory Care

@@@PAGE 452@@@
---LEFT---
RC251 - Respiratory Pathophysiology Case Presentations
General Information
Course is designed to provide students with a introduction into problem based
learning and evidenced based medicine using pathophysiology cases. Included will
be a comprehensive overview of the various disease processes, surgical
procedures, and new respiratory therapy technology.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC162 - Advanced RC Pathophysiology
RC261 - Pediatric and Neonatal Respiratory Care
General Information
Course will provide second year students with an overview of pediatric and
neonatal diseases. The field of neonatology/pediatrics is highly dynamic and
requires up to date knowledge of clinical and technical skills. A neonatal/pediatric
RCP is expected to be able to perform as an integral part of the highly specialized
health care team as well as develop critical thinking skills.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Prerequisite: RC 152 with a minimum grade of C AND RC 161 with a
minimum grade of C or Instructor Permission
---RIGHT---
RC262 - Review of Applications of Respiratory Care
General Information
Course will provide students with a review for the advanced level practitioner
written and clinical simulation NBRC examinations. Included will be
comprehensive overviews of all respiratory subject matter, including: Analysis of
Date, Equipment, and Therapies.
Components Credits
Lecture 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Prerequisite: RC 152 with a minimum grade of C AND RC 261 with a
minimum grade of C Or instructor permission
RC263 - Pulmonary Functions
General Information
Course will provide students with information necessary for understanding
Pulmonary Function Testing, Exercise Testing, and their interpretations. Included
will be a comprehensive overview of the subject matter in the form of lecture, small
group discussion, or student presentations.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceeptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Respiratory Care Program

@@@PAGE 453@@@
---LEFT---
RC272 - Pulmonary Rehabilitation, Home Care, and
Assistance in Specialty Procedures
General Information
Course will provide students with information about the alternate settings of
pulmonary rehabilitation and home care.
Components Credits
Lecture 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceeptance
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the Respiratory Care Program
RC280 - RC Specialty Clinical I
General Information
Course will prepare the second year Respiratory Care student to perform
advanced respiratory therapeutic modalities in a variety of settings. Emphasis is
placed on advanced assessment techniques and patient education. This class
consists of a clinical rotation only. Students will be assigned to Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday clinical days.
Components Credits
Clinical 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC183 - Respiratory Therapy Clinical IV
---RIGHT---
RC281 - Advanced Critical Care Clinical Rotation
General Information
Course will prepare the second year Respiratory Care student to perform
advanced respiratory therapeutic modalities in a variety of settings. Emphasis is
placed on advanced assessment techniques and patient education. This class
consists of a clinical rotation only. Students will be assigned to Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday clinical days.
Components Credits
Clinical 4
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC280 - RC Specialty Clinical I
RC282 - Neonatal Clinical Rotation
General Information
Course will prepare the second year Respiratory Care student to perform
advanced respiratory therapeutic modalities in a neonatal intensive care setting.
Emphasis is placed on patient assessment techniques. This class consists of a
five-week clinical rotation.
Components Credits
Clinical 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC281 - Advanced Critical Care Clinical Rotation

@@@PAGE 454@@@
---LEFT---
RC283 - Specialty Clinical Rotation II
General Information
Course is designed to prepare the second year Respiratory Care student as an
expert respiratory care practitioner. This five-week rotation is the last clinical
rotation before graduation; therefore, students are encouraged to do their final
rotation at their desired place of employment. This class consists of a clinical
rotation only.
Components Credits
Clinical 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Respiratory Therapy
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• RC281 - Advanced Critical Care Clinical Rotation
RC290 - Ethics and Professionalism in Respiratory Care
General Information
While providing care and delivering therapies, RCP's must be continuously aware
of the legal and ethical implications of the services they deliver and their actions
while delivering them. This course will provide students with information
necessary for understanding legal issues and for making ethical decisions in
respiratory care.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Enrolled into the RC program
Science Department
For more information on our Science department: Website: Science, Engineering, & Mathematics
Science Department Co-chair's:
Jeff Engle - jengle@tacomacc.edu
Ivan Ramirez - iramirez@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
RC299 - Individual Study in Respiratory Therapy
General Information
Independent learning activity designed jointly by student and instructor to
improve and/or increase the learner's knowledge and skill.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission
(SEM) Pathway : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 455@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
SCI105 - Introductory Topics in Natural Science
General Information
Concepts from multiple scientific fields (including biology, chemistry, physics, and
the earth and space sciences) will be investigated through the in-depth exploration
of an applied interdisciplinary topic. This course will provide introductory-level
science students with an expansive understanding of scientific principles, methods,
and techniques. Laboratories and field work included.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Math
Proficiency in Algebra.
Sociology Department
For more information on our Sociology department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/sociolo
Sociology Department Chair: Andrew Cho - acho@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 456@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 457@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Sociology Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Sociology Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Sociology Specialization offers students a strong foundation in the key
concepts, terminology, and contemporary developments in the dynamic field of
sociology. A background in sociology supports a wide range of career paths,
including social services, community outreach, education, public policy, human
resources, and entry-level research roles in both public and private sectors.
This specialization prepares students to transfer with junior standing into a
bachelor’s degree program in History at most Washington State public
baccalaureate institutions. Students planning to transfer to institutions outside
Washington should consult with their intended transfer school to ensure course
compatibility and transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 SOCIOLOGY
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Sociology Specialization Requirements (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
Foundation Courses
Complete at least 3 of the following courses:
• SOC120 - Introduction to Women's Studies
• SOC200 - Introduction to Research Methods for Sociologists
• SOC&201 - Social Problems
• SOC205 - Sociology of African Americans
• SOC222 - Sociology of Sport
• SOC238 - Sociology of Latinx Americans
• SOC260 - Introduction to Queer Studies
• SOC262 - Race and Ethnic Relations
• SOC265 - Sociology of Asian Americans
• SOC271 - Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and
Social Control
• SOC287 - Sociology of Gender and Sexuality
Quantitative/Symbolic Reasoning Skills Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.

@@@PAGE 458@@@
---LEFT---
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGL&102 Composition II: Argument and Persuasion - Composition II:
Argument and Persuasion
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• MATH&146 - Introduction to Statistics
MATH&146 is required for the Sociology Specialization.
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH46 Co-requisite for Statistics -
MATH& 146: Co-requisite for Statistics.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
---RIGHT---
Recommend choosing courses from Art, Communication Studies, Music,
and World Languages.
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Sociology Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
AND
Sociology Specialization Foundation Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• SOC120 - Introduction to Women's Studies
• SOC200 - Introduction to Research Methods for
Sociologists
• SOC&201 - Social Problems
• SOC205 - Sociology of African Americans
• SOC222 - Sociology of Sport
• SOC238 - Sociology of Latinx Americans
• SOC260 - Introduction to Queer Studies
• SOC262 - Race and Ethnic Relations
• SOC265 - Sociology of Asian Americans
• SOC271 - Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and
Social Control
• SOC287 - Sociology of Gender and Sexuality
AND
Social Science Additional Course
Complete 5 credits from the Social Science distribution course list from
a discipline other than Sociology.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommend choosing from:
ANTH&100 Survey of Anthropology - Survey of Anthropology
(Multicultural Course)
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
POLS&101 Introduction to Political Science - Introduction to Political
Science
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least 1 laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:

@@@PAGE 459@@@
---LEFT---
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Recommended Courses:
ANTH&205 Biological Anthropology - Biological Anthropology (Biological,
Earth, and Physical Sciences)
ANTH&237 Human Osteology - Human Osteology (Biological, Earth, and
Physical Sciences)
ANTH&245 Primatology - Primatology (Biological, Earth, and Physical
Sciences)
ENVS&101 Introduction to Environmental Science - Introduction to
Environmental Science w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
SCI105 Introductory Topics in Natural Science - Introductory Topics in
Natural Science w/Lab (Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Sociology Specialization Foundation Courses
Complete at least 2 of the following courses:
• SOC120 - Introduction to Women's Studies
• SOC200 - Introduction to Research Methods for
Sociologists
• SOC&201 - Social Problems
• SOC205 - Sociology of African Americans
• SOC222 - Sociology of Sport
• SOC238 - Sociology of Latinx Americans
• SOC260 - Introduction to Queer Studies
• SOC262 - Race and Ethnic Relations
• SOC265 - Sociology of Asian Americans
• SOC271 - Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and
Social Control
• SOC287 - Sociology of Gender and Sexuality
AND
Additional Distribution Elective Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply toward
the degree.
College-Level Electives (10 credits)
---RIGHT---
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply toward the
degree.
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Sociology Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Social Sciences Distribution to
fulfill up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural
requirement, one specialization requirement, and one distribution
requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology (Sociology
Specialization Core Course, Social Sciences Distribution & Multicultural Course)
SOC120 Introduction to Women's Studies - Introduction to Women's
Studies (Sociology Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences
Distribution & Multicultural Course)
SOC&201 Social Problems - Social Problems (Sociology Specialization
Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution & Multicultural Course)
SOC205 Sociology of African Americans - Sociology of African Americans
(Sociology Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
SOC222 Sociology of Sport - Sociology of Sport (Sociology Specialization
Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution & Multicultural Course)
SOC238 Sociology of Latinx Americans - Sociology of Latinx Americans
(Sociology Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
SOC260 Introduction to Queer Studies - Introduction to Queer Studies
(Sociology Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
SOC262 Race and Ethnic Relations - Race and Ethnic Relations (Sociology
Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution & Multicultural
Course)
SOC265 Sociology of Asian Americans - Sociology of Asian Americans
(Sociology Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
SOC287 Sociology of Gender and Sexuality - Sociology of Gender and
Sexuality (Sociology Specialization Foundation Course, Social Sciences
Distribution & Multicultural Course)
Program Map
Associate in Arts, DTA - Sociology Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Education, Social & Behavioral Sciences Pathway Advising.

@@@PAGE 460@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
General Information
An introduction to the basic concepts and theories of sociology with an emphasis
on the group aspects of human behavior. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Recommended Preparation
Type
Prerequisite
English
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking ENGLC101
Tools for Reading & Writing to support you in this class.
SOC&201 - Social Problems
General Information
A macro-sociological approach to the study of social problems with special
emphasis on the effects of institutional change in the economic, educational,
family, political, religious, and other systems of contemporary human societies.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
SOC120 - Introduction to Women's Studies
General Information
Introduction to the study of women, feminism, and theories of oppression and
privilege, particularly with respect to gender, sexuality, race, class, and sexual
orientation. Topics include systems of oppression, gender socialization, sexuality,
violence, and social institutions such as family, health care, media, religion, legal
systems, work and labor, and education. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
ENGL& 101/COL 101 strongly encouraged, either prior or concurrently.
If you are not comfortable with writing, please consider taking WRITE
096 to support you in this class.
SOC200 - Introduction to Research Methods for
Sociologists
General Information
This course is an introduction to research methods in sociology, covering
quantitative, qualitative, primary and secondary data and defining the basic types
of research method including social surveys, experiments, interviews, focus groups,
participant observation, ethnography and longitudinal studies. This course will also
review general issues in the design and implementation of research projects, as
well as specific issues that arise in conducting interviews and field observations,
constructing and administering surveys, analyzing existing data, and planning
program evaluations.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101

@@@PAGE 461@@@
---LEFT---
SOC205 - Sociology of African Americans
General Information
This course explores the socio-historical experiences of African Americans. We will
investigate the social history of African Americans in the United States, oppression
and the perpetuation of social inequality, current demographic trends, issues of
race, class, gender, and family, and contemporary sociological issues of African
Americans. We will also debate solutions to various social problems that are of
particular concern to the black community. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
SOC222 - Sociology of Sport
General Information
Introduction to the sociological analysis of sport. There will be a particular
emphasis on: race, class, gender, and sexuality issues within sport; socialization and
interactions within sport; sport and education; deviance, crime, and violence in
sport; the business and economics of sport. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
SOC238 - Sociology of Latinx Americans
General Information
This course provides students with a critical overview of some of the central
themes and issues that have shaped the experiences of Latinx populations in the
U.S. Topics this course will cover include: the history of the Hispanic and Latinx
ethnic labels; U.S.-Latin American relations; different issues faced by various ethnic
communities; and the politics of language and bilingualism. Course materials will
draw primarily from articles, books, and documentaries to discuss the ways in
which Latin Americans influence U.S. society and culture. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
SOC260 - Introduction to Queer Studies
General Information
This course introduces students to the growing and interdisciplinary field of queer
studies. We will cover historical, political, social, and contemporary contexts for an
in-depth understanding of LGBTQ+ experiences in the U.S. and globally. By
applying intersectionality, we will also understand different and overlapping
experiences within LGBTQ+ realities.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirement
Type
Completion Requirement
English Composition
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
May be taken concurrently.

@@@PAGE 462@@@
---LEFT---
SOC262 - Race and Ethnic Relations
General Information
Builds upon and expands the students' understanding of race and ethnic relations
in American contemporary society. Focuses on how immigrant groups adapt to a
new country, manifestations of racism and discrimination, as well as the economic
and social progress of different ethnic groups. Explores how to alter patterns of
racial and ethnic inequality through social movements and social policy.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
SOC265 - Sociology of Asian Americans
General Information
This course explores the socio-historical experiences of Asian American groups.
We will investigate the history of Asian immigration to the United States,
discriminatory and anti-Asian legislation, factors influencing social inequality
amongst Asian American ethnic groups, current demographic trends, issues of
race, class, gender, and family, and contemporary sociological issues of Asian
Americans. (Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
---RIGHT---
SOC271 - Introduction to the Sociology of Deviance and
Social Control
General Information
Analysis of deviant behavior from the perspective of sociological theory and
research. Emphasis is on developing a sociological understanding and critical
analysis of social theory relating to deviant, criminal, and violent behavior in
various societies.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Additional Comments:
or concurrent enrollment in ENGL&101
SOC287 - Sociology of Gender and Sexuality
General Information
This course will examine the social construction of gender and sexuality and
discuss key theories to the study of gender. Macro perspectives of culture and
social institutions are also given special attention. Gender does not exist in a
vacuum; therefore, gender will be discussed in relation to its intersection with
other social identities, such as race, class, sexuality, age, ability, and size. We'll learn
about sexuality and how it relates to gender historically and contemporary through
feminist and queer theories.(multicultural content)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Social Sciences
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
OR PSYC&100 - General Psychology
OR ANTH&100 - Survey of Anthropology

@@@PAGE 463@@@
---LEFT---
SOC299 - Individual Study
General Information
A variable credit (1-5) course based on independent study contracted between an
instructor and a student. The emphasis will be a research related project which will
provide an opportunity for students to pursue in-depth in an area previously or
concurrently covered in a college-level course.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Sociology
Prerequisite: SOC& 101 with a minimum grade of B+ AND Instructor
permission
Spanish Department
For more information on our World Language Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/world_languages
World Language Department Chair: Bruno Arzola-Padilla - barzolapadilla@tacomacc.edu
Courses
SPAN&121 - Spanish I
General Information
The first year of the beginning Spanish language sequence consists of 121, 122, and
123. SPAN&-121 is the first quarter of the sequence. The basic tenets of
communications including reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed
in a dynamic second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology.
Grammar is used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part
in small group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic
materials will be focused on in the class as well as assessment. Students should
expect to be immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
---RIGHT---
SPAN&122 - Spanish II
General Information
SPAN&-122 is the second quarter of the first-year language sequence and
continues to build on the skills acquired in SPAN&-121. The basic tenets of
communications including reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed
in a dynamic second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology.
Grammar is used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part
in small group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic
materials will be focused on in the class as well as assessment. Students should
expect to be immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum.
(Multicultural Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Spanish
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• SPAN&121 - Spanish I

@@@PAGE 464@@@
---LEFT---
SPAN&123 - Spanish III
General Information
SPAN&-123 is the third quarter of the first-year language sequence and continues
to build on the skills acquired in SPAN&-122. The basic tenets of communications
including reading, writing, speaking, and listening are developed in a dynamic
second language acquisition environment enhanced by technology. Grammar is
used as a communication tool to express meaning as students take part in small
group discussions, cultural investigation, and presentation. Authentic materials will
be focused on in the class as well as assessment. Students should expect to be
immersed in the language. English will be used at a minimum. (Multicultural
Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Spanish
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• SPAN&122 - Spanish II
World Languages Department
For more information on our World Language Department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/world_languages
World Language Department Chair: Bruno Arzola-Padilla - barzolapadilla@tacomacc.edu
Writing Center Department
For more information on our Supplemental Writing Center department: Writing & Tutoring
Writing Center Department Co-Chair's:
Andrew Brotlund - abrotlund@tacomacc.edu
Heather Urschel - hurschel@tacomacc.edu
Courses
WRITE96 - Writing Center Tutorials
General Information
This is a course that offers students one-on-one tutorial help with writing or
college study skills. During scheduled tutoring sessions, students receive
individualized support with their writing and study skills, focusing on developing
strategies to succeed with their other coursework. No homework is assigned,
though the tutor will regularly check in on the student's understanding and
application of strategies. At least nine 50-minute tutorial sessions per quarter must
be completed for credit. If there is space in the course, it can be added up to
midterm with instructor permission. May be taken a total of four times. Course can
be graded Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory if arranged by student at the start of class.
Components Credits Max Credits
Systems 1 2
---RIGHT---
Center : Tacoma Community College (tacomacc.edu)
WRITE140 - Writing Center Tutor Practicum I
General Information
Provides qualified students with training in assisting students in one-on-one
tutorial sessions at the Writing & Tutoring center. Topics of study include writing
and writing center theories, tutoring strategies, and responding to writing. Course
includes regular tutor discussion group meetings and activities in Angel. Students
may have the opportunity to apply tutoring skills in actual sessions and to earn the
first level of International Tutoring Program Certificate.
Components Credits
Systems 2

@@@PAGE 465@@@
---LEFT---
WRITE141 - Writing Center Tutor Practicum II
General Information
Provides qualified students with training and experience in assisting students in
one-on-one tutorial sessions at the Writing & Tutoring Center. Topics of study
include advanced tutoring topics such as working with at-risk students. Course
includes regular tutor discussion group meetings and activities in Angel. Students
will apply tutoring skills in actual sessions and have the opportunity to earn the
second level of International Tutoring Program Certification.
Components Credits
Systems 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Writing Center
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• WRITE140 - Writing Center Tutor Practicum I
WRITE142 - Writing Center Tutor Practicum III
General Information
Provides qualified students with training and experience in assisting students in
one-on-one and group tutorial sessions at the Writing & Tutoring Center. Includes
the opportunity to hold a tutoring leadership role. Course includes regular tutor
discussion group meetings and activities in Angel. Students will apply tutoring skills
in actual sessions and have the opportunity to earn the third level of International
Tutoring Program Certification.
Components Credits
Systems 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Writing Center
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• WRITE141 - Writing Center Tutor Practicum II
Writing Studies Department
For more information on our Literature department: https://www.tacomacc.edu/academics-programs/programs/literature
For more information on our Writing Studies department: Writing Studies : Tacoma
Literature and Writing Studies Department Chair: Andrew Brottlund - abrottlund@tacomacc.edu
---RIGHT---
Community College (tacomacc.edu)

@@@PAGE 466@@@
---LEFT---
Programs
---RIGHT---


@@@PAGE 467@@@
---LEFT---
Associate in Arts, DTA - Interdisciplinary Writing
Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Interdisciplinary Writing Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Interdisciplinary Writing Studies Specialization aims to help students build and
strengthen their unique voices, harness the energy of language, and make
intentional writing choices that empower them to express themselves and
promote change. This specialization offers students real-world writing experience
and academic preparation for transfer to a wide variety of four-year college or
university programs. This degree is also a great choice for students who know they
want to transfer but haven't yet decided on an area of interest. This specialization
prepares students to transfer to a four-year college as a junior and pursue a diverse
range of degrees and careers, including meaningful and fulfilling work in media,
education, business, government, publishing, non-profit, law, public relations,
communications, and arts sectors. Courses are designed to help students develop
the capacity to critically examine power and privilege within print and digital texts;
produce effective, audience-centered texts; and develop an inclusive, respectful,
and multicultural worldview through engagement with faculty, peers, and locally
and nationally recognized writers.
Graduates are prepared to transfer to bachelor’s programs with junior standing to
most Washington State baccalaureate institutions, having satisfied most or all
lower-division general education requirements. Students planning to transfer out
of state should consult with their intended institution to ensure course
transferability.
Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic advisor to
develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the specific
admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities or
education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 INTRDSC_WR
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
---RIGHT---
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Interdisciplinary Writing Specialization Requirements (35 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• POLS&101 - Introduction to Political Science
OR POLS&202 - United States Government
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.

@@@PAGE 468@@@
---LEFT---
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Interdisciplinary Writing Studies Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
• ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
OR ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll concurrently
in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for Reading and Writing.
This course may be applied as a college-level elective towards degree
requirements.
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Recommended Course:
MATH&146 Introduction to Statistics - Introduction to Statistics
Students looking to strengthen their skill base with pre-requisite topics are
encouraged to enroll concurrently in MATH&146 and MATH46
Co-requisite for Statistics - MATH& 146.
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Interdisciplinary Writing Studies Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• CMST&101 - Introduction to Communication
OR CMST&240 - Intercultural Communication
AND
Additional Humanities Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
---RIGHT---
5 credits must come from a discipline other than Communication
Studies (CMST/CMST&)
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Interdisciplinary Writing Studies Specialization Core Courses
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• PSYC&100 - General Psychology
• SOC&101 - Introduction to Sociology
• POLS&101 - Introduction to Political Science
OR POLS&202 - United States Government
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Interdisciplinary Writing Studies Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
AND
Additional Distribution Electives
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution Courses

@@@PAGE 469@@@
---LEFT---
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Physical Education Distribution Courses
• General Distribution Courses
No more than 3.0 PE activity credits may be applied toward the degree.
Recommended Courses:
ENGL276 Creative Writing - Fiction - Creative Writing - Fiction
ENGL278 Creative Writing - Poetry - Creative Writing - Poetry
College Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply toward the
degree.
Recommended Courses:
ENGL178 Trillium Production Workshop - Trillium Production Workshop
ENGL180 Una Voce Workshop - Una Voce Workshop
LS101 Introduction to Research - Introduction to Research
LS102 Research for Writing in the Disciplines - Research for Writing in the
Disciplines
WRITE140 Writing Center Tutor Practicum I - Writing Center Tutor
Practicum I
WRITE141 Writing Center Tutor Practicum II - Writing Center Tutor
Practicum II
WRITE142 Writing Center Tutor Practicum III - Writing Center Tutor
Practicum III
Multicultural Requirement (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Interdisciplinary Writing Specialization, students may apply a
single Multicultural-designated course from the Communication Skills,
Social Sciences, or Humanities Distribution to fulfill up to three
requirements simultaneously - multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
(Interdisciplinary Writing Specialization Specialization Core Course, Social
Sciences Distribution & Multicultural Course)
CMST&240 Intercultural Communication - Intercultural Communication
(Interdisciplinary Writing Specialization Specialization Core Course,
Communication Skills or Humanities Distribution, & Multicultural Course)
---RIGHT---
Program Map
Program Map: Associate in Arts, DTA - Interdisciplinary
Writing Specialization
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising

@@@PAGE 470@@@
---LEFT---
Associate of Arts, DTA - Literature Specialization
Overview
Full Credential Title
Associate in Arts, DTA - Literature Specialization
Catalog Description
The Associate in Arts Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) is a statewide transfer
degree recognized by all Washington State public baccalaureate institutions and
many private colleges. It provides students with a broad foundation in the liberal
arts and is designed to support a seamless transition into bachelor’s degree
programs.
The Literature Specialization provides a solid introduction to the concepts,
terminology, interpretation and analysis of literature. This specialization prepares
students for successful transfer to a four-year college at the junior level in English,
American Studies, or Literature. TCC's Literature Specialization includes a rich
variety of exciting courses ranging from ancient to postmodern literature and from
the traditional to the experimental or avant-garde. Students work closely with
accomplished faculty who are published poets, novelists, and nonfiction writers.
Graduates are prepared to transfer to bachelor’s programs with junior standing to
most Washington State baccalaureate institutions, having satisfied most or all
lower-division general education requirements. Students planning to transfer out
of state should consult with their intended institution to ensure course
transferability. Students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic
advisor to develop an education plan that meets both degree requirements and the
specific admission criteria of their intended transfer institution. Some universities
or education programs may require additional prerequisites, a minimum GPA, or a
competitive application process.
Total Number of ctcLink Plan Code ctcLink Sub-Plan Effective Term
Credits LASDTAA Code Fall 2025
90 LITERATURE
Requirements
Simple Requisites
Requirements
• A minimum of 90 quarter credit hours in courses numbered 100 or
above.
• At least 25% of the applicable credits must be earned at Tacoma
Community College.
◦ Students who plan to apply coursework earned at
another institution other than TCC to this degree
must submit an official transcript to Enrollment
Services for evaluation. All coursework must be from a
regionally accredited institution to be considered for
equivalency. TCC may also accept transfer credits for
professional/technical programs if the credits are
from an institution with a related program
accreditation. For more information, visit Transfer
Credits to TCC or Enrollment Services in Building 7.
• Individual courses may only be counted toward one required area
within the degree. However, there are two exceptions:
◦ Multicultural Requirement: A multicultural
designated course may also be used to complete a
single distribution requirement and/or a specialization
Requirement.
◦ Specialization Requirement: A course used to
complete a specialization requirement may also be
used to complete a single distribution requirement
and/or the Multicultural Requirement.
---RIGHT---
◦ Fulfilling a requirement following an exception listed
above does not reduce the total degree requirement
of 90 quarter credits.
• A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in the coursework that is
applied to the degree.
• No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply
toward the degree.
• After completing all degree requirements, students must apply to
graduate. Instructions to Apply to Graduate can be found here or
by visiting Enrollment Services in Building 7.
Literature Specialization Requirements (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&244 - American Literature I
Special Focus Courses
Complete at least 4 of the following courses:
• ENGL&220 - Introduction to Shakespeare
• ENGL&226 - British Literature I
• ENGL&227 - British Literature II
• ENGL234 - Introduction to Mythology and Folk Stories
• ENGL242 - Contemporary Non-Western Literature
• ENGL&245 - American Literature II
• ENGL&246 - American Literature III
• ENGL261 - The Bible as Literature
• ENGL262 - Children's Literature
• ENGL271 - Contemporary American Fiction
• ENGL280 - Literatures of Diversity
• HUM130 - Introduction to Film
College Success (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
College 101 (5 credits)
Students are required to take this class in their first or second quarter at
TCC.
Exemptions:
• Students who have completed 30 or more credits with a
cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at TCC before beginning a
degree that requires College 101.
• Students who transfer in 30 or more credits with a cumulative
GPA of 2.0 or higher.
• Students who have an Associate or Bachelor’s degree from a
regionally accredited institution.
• Students who have a Bachelor’s degree from another
country.
• Students who have successfully completed an equivalent
success course at another institution.
• Students who have successfully completed HD 101 (prior to
Fall 2022), FRSH 100 or ABE 019 at TCC.

@@@PAGE 471@@@
---LEFT---
Students who are granted an exemption from COL 101 will need to
complete additional college level elective credits to complete the required
90 credits for the degree.
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• COL101 - College 101
Distribution Requirements (60 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Communication Skills (10 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
English Composition Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
Students looking to strengthen their reading and writing skills, and to
increase their success in ENGL&101 are encouraged to enroll
concurrently in ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing : Tools for
Reading and Writing. This course may be applied as a college-level
elective towards degree requirements.
AND
Additional Communication Skills Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Communication Skills
• Communication Skills & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
ENGL103 Composition III: Writing about Literature: Composition III:
Writing about Literature
Quantitiatve/Symbolic Reasoning Skills (5 credits)
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Quantitative /Symbolic Reasoning Skills
Humantities Distribution (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines (two
different prefix areas).
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• No more than 5 credits in world language at the 100 level.
• No more than 5 credits in performance/skill (P/S) courses may
be used to satisfy this requirement
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Literature Specialization Core Course
Complete ALL of the following Courses:
• ENGL&244 - American Literature I
AND
Literature Specialization Special Focus Course
Complete at least 1 of the following courses:
• ENGL&220 - Introduction to Shakespeare
• ENGL&226 - British Literature I
---RIGHT---
• ENGL&227 - British Literature II
• ENGL234 - Introduction to Mythology and Folk Stories
• ENGL242 - Contemporary Non-Western Literature
• ENGL&245 - American Literature II
• ENGL&246 - American Literature III
• ENGL261 - The Bible as Literature
• ENGL262 - Children's Literature
• ENGL271 - Contemporary American Fiction
• ENGL280 - Literatures of Diversity
AND
Additional Humanities Course
Complete 5 credits from a discipline other than English (ENGL/ENGL&).
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Humanities Distribution Courses
• Humanities Distribution Courses - Performance/Skills
Courses
• Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Course:
HUM130 Introduction to Film - Introduction to Film
Social Science Distribution Courses (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
Earn at least 15 credits from the following:
• Social Science Distribution Courses
• Social Science Distribution & Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
PSYC&100 General Psychology - General Psychology
PSYC&220 Psychological Disorders - Psychological Disorders
SOC&101 Introduction to Sociology - Introduction to Sociology
(Multicultural Course)
Natural Sciences (15 credits)
• Courses must be selected from at least two disciplines.
• Must include at least 10 credits from the courses listed as
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences on the Natural
Sciences Distribution Course List.
• No more than 10 credits allowed from any one discipline
• Must include at least one laboratory course
• No more than 5 credits allowed from a MATH prefixed course
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences Courses
Earn at least 10 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses - Biological, Earth,
and Physical Sciences
AND
Natural Sciences or Math Course
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Natural Sciences Distribution Courses
• Math Courses

@@@PAGE 472@@@
---LEFT---
Recommended Courses:
BIOL&100 Survey of Biology - Survey of Biology (Lab Course, Biological,
Earth, and Physical Sciences)
GEOL108 Fossils and the History of Life - Fossils and the History of Life
(Lab Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
SCI105 Introductory Topics in Natural Science - Introductory Topics in
Natural Science (Lab Course, Biological, Earth, and Physical Sciences)
Electives (25 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Distribution Electives (15 credits)
Fulfill ALL of the following requirements:
Literature Specialization Special Focus Courses
Complete at least 3 of the following courses:
• ENGL&220 - Introduction to Shakespeare
• ENGL&226 - British Literature I
• ENGL&227 - British Literature II
• ENGL234 - Introduction to Mythology and Folk Stories
• ENGL242 - Contemporary Non-Western Literature
• ENGL&245 - American Literature II
• ENGL&246 - American Literature III
• ENGL261 - The Bible as Literature
• ENGL262 - Children's Literature
• ENGL271 - Contemporary American Fiction
• ENGL280 - Literatures of Diversity
• HUM130 - Introduction to Film
College-Level Electives (10 credits)
Complete 10 credits of College-Level Electives
Complete any 10 credits from courses numbered 100 or above.
No more than 3.0 physical education activity credits will apply toward the
degree.
Recommended Course:
ENGLC101 Tools for Reading & Writing - Tools for Reading & Writing
Multicultural Course (5 credits)
Type
Completion Requirement
Multicultural Course
A single course may be used to satisfy the multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement. Please
consult the listings under each distribution area requirement to identify
courses that fulfill both criteria.
For the Literature Specialization, students may apply a single
Multicultural-designated course from the Humanities Distribution to fulfill
up to three requirements simultaneously - multicultural requirement, one
specialization requirement, and one distribution requirement.
This overlap does not reduce the total degree requirement of 90 quarter
credits.
Earn at least 5 credits from the following:
• Multicultural Courses
Recommended Courses:
ENGL&227 British Literature II - British Literature II (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
---RIGHT---
ENGL234 Introduction to Mythology and Folk Stories - Introduction to
Mythology and Folk Stories (Literature Specialization, Humanities
Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ENGL242 Contemporary Non-Western Literature - Contemporary
Non-Western Literature (Literature Specialization, Humanities Distribution &
Multicultural Course)
ENGL&244 American Literature I - American Literature I (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ENGL&245 American Literature II - American Literature II (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ENGL&246 American Literature III - American Literature III (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ENGL261 The Bible as Literature - The Bible as Literature (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ENGL262 Children's Literature - Children's Literature (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
ENGL271 Contemporary American Fiction - Contemporary American
Fiction (Literature Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural
Course)
ENGL280 Literatures of Diversity - Literatures of Diversity (Literature
Specialization, Humanities Distribution & Multicultural Course)
Program Map
Associate of Arts, DTA - Literature Specialization Program Map
Program maps are suggested academic plans and should not be used in the place of
regular academic advising. Your student entry method, placement, course
availability, and program requirements are subject to change and transfer credit(s)
may change your individualized academic plan. Click here to connect with an
advisor for this degree: Creative Arts, Literature, and Communication Pathway
Advising

@@@PAGE 473@@@
---LEFT---
Courses
ENGL&101 - English Composition I
General Information
Study and application of the principles of college writing. Students read, analyze,
and write expository, descriptive, and argumentative essays, as well as learn to
develop ideas fully, organize them effectively, and express them clearly. ENGL&
101 readings focus on the essay. This course may not be taken "S/U."
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Placement Testing
Completion of the English Directed Self Placement Tool or appropriate
placement. Description
ENGL&102 - Composition II: Argument and Persuasion
General Information
The application and further development of writing principles covered in
ENGL&-101. ENGL&-102 is a composition course designed to develop the
student's ability to write sound and cogent arguments in several academic
disciplines. Course work focuses on strategies for developing convincing evidence,
with emphasis on critical thinking and library research skills. This course may not
be taken S/U.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
ENGL&220 - Introduction to Shakespeare
General Information
Introduction to Shakespeare through a study of several of his tragedies, histories,
comedies, and sonnets. (Writing-Intensive Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL&226 - British Literature I
General Information
Survey of British literature from its beginnings to the Renaissance up to 1600
examining the following literary periods or genres: Old English, Middle English and
the English Renaissance. Writers may include Chaucer, Malory, Milton, Jonson, and
Shakespeare. Writing assignmentsprimarily analyticalare based on the reading,
research and discussion of literature. (Writing-Intensive Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I

@@@PAGE 474@@@
---LEFT---
ENGL&227 - British Literature II
General Information
Survey of British literature from 1600 to 1780 examining the following literary
periods or genres: Elizabethan Age, Neoclassical Period, Restoration Period, Age of
Sensibility and early Romanticism. Writers may include Sidney, Raleigh, Bacon,
Blake, Dryden, Locke, Pope, Johnson, Fielding, and Donne. Writing
assignmentsprimarily analyticalare based on the reading, research and discussion
of literature. (Multicultural & Writing-Intensive Course)
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL&235 - Technical Writing
General Information
A practical course in organizing, developing and writing technical information,
including reports. Attention given to organizational patterns and report formats
common to scientific and technical disciplines and technical writing conventions,
including headings, illustrations, style and tone.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
ENGL&244 - American Literature I
General Information
Survey of American literature from the beginnings through the Civil War.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL&245 - American Literature II
General Information
Survey of American literature from the Civil War to the eve of World War I
examining the current literary periods or genres: Slave and Abolition narratives,
Transcendentalism, Pastoral Tradition, Naturalism, Early Feminism, American
Gothic, Expressionism, and Romanticism. Writing assignmentsprimarily
analyticalare based on the reading, research and discussion of literature.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I

@@@PAGE 475@@@
---LEFT---
ENGL&246 - American Literature III
General Information
Survey of American literature from 1910-1960 examining the current literary
periods: Imagism, Confessional Poetry, Beat Generation, Lost Generation,
Southern Renaissance, Harlem Renaissance, Modernism, Post-Modernism, and
Metafiction. Writing assignmentsprimarily analyticalare based on the reading,
research and discussion of literature.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
(No Requirement Levels)
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum grade of undefined in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL103 - Composition III: Writing about Literature
General Information
The application and further development of writing principles covered in
ENGL&-101. The writing - primarily analytical - is based on the reading and
discussion of literature. This course may not be taken S/U.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
ENGL178 - Trillium Production Workshop
General Information
Course covers the basics of editing, design, and production of a literary magazine
offering practical hands-on experience.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Instructor Permission
Prerequisite: Instructor permission.
ENGL180 - Una Voce Workshop
General Information
Una Voce Workshop provides practical, hands-on experience at every stage of the
production of a magazine: solicitation of essays, selection of submissions,
arrangement of submissions, writing of introductions, proofreading, and
publication.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I

@@@PAGE 476@@@
---LEFT---
ENGL234 - Introduction to Mythology and Folk Stories
General Information
A comparative study of myths and folklore throughout the world. Emphasis is on
the commonality of concerns and values expressed by both western and
non-western cultures and on the literary value of myths and folklore.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
ENGL242 - Contemporary Non-Western Literature
General Information
A survey of contemporary non-Western literature. Various cultural and historical
themes will be studied from quarter to quarter.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
---RIGHT---
ENGL261 - The Bible as Literature
General Information
The Bible as Literature examines the Bible, both the Hebrew Bible and the
Christian Testament, as a collection of literary works. Students learn to recognize
plot, theme, character, setting, style, and figurative language and to consider the
interaction of those elements. They also learn about the history of the composition,
transmission, and translation of the works. There is emphasis on the original
cultural context of the stories and on the ways they have been revised and
reinterpreted in other cultures. The purpose of the course is not to supplant the
Bible as a religious text, but to enhance each student's appreciation of the Bible
regardless of his or her religious convictions.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL262 - Children's Literature
General Information
Children's Literature is the study of classic and contemporary fiction and poetry for
children, from the early reading levels through high school. Although the course is
intended for students who plan to become teachers, it is open to all students who
meet the prerequisites. Students examine and critique a variety of works on the
basis of the elements of literature, such as plot, character, theme, setting, and style.
They research the historical contexts of the works. They present their critiques and
findings in written form, along with specific suggestions for teaching the works.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I

@@@PAGE 477@@@
---LEFT---
ENGL271 - Contemporary American Fiction
General Information
Study of American fiction written since 1960 with an emphasis on the major
writers and themes of contemporary fiction.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)
ENGL276 - Creative Writing - Fiction
General Information
A workshop for the writing of fiction (short story, novel), with particular attention
to techniques used by contemporary authors. Course is flexible to meet needs of
individual students. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 3
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
---RIGHT---
ENGL278 - Creative Writing - Poetry
General Information
A workshop for the writing of poetry, and the study and analysis of poetry
techniques. Course is flexible to meet the needs of the individual students and may
be repeated. Performance/skills course.
Components Credits
Lecture, Lab 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
ENGL280 - Literatures of Diversity
General Information
An introduction to the literatures of various cultures. Includes a study of historical
and cultural context within which the literature evolved. Various single authors or
a combination of authors will be studied from quarter to quarter. May be taken
twice as cultures or authors covered are different each offering.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
English
Earn a minimum Grade of C in the following:
• ENGL95 - Academic Reading and Writing II: Threshold
(Inactive)

@@@PAGE 478@@@
---LEFT---
ENGL299 - Independent Study
General Information
Individual study, project-oriented. Professor permission required.
Components Credits Max Credits
Lecture 1 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Chair Permission
Prerequisite: Permission from program chair.
ENGL301 - Professional Writing and Communication in
Healthcare
General Information
This course will focus on professional writing in a diverse work environment.
Students will explore persuasive, informative, and culturally relevant writing that
utilizes research and supporting evidence. Course content includes the analysis
and writing of workplace communications that will integrate text and visuals to
convey complex information.
Components Credits
Lecture 5
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Prerequisite
Program Acceptance
Prerequisite: Admission into a BAS Program or Instructor Permission
AND ENGL& 101 with a minimum grade of C
---RIGHT---
ENGLC101 - Tools for Reading & Writing
General Information
This course is a two-credit academic resource course designed to serve as a
companion to ENGL& 101: English Composition I through the Accelerated
Learning Program (ALP). Taken concurrently with ENGL&101, this course provides
additional instructional resources for students, offering extended contact time
with the instructor to reinforce and practice key reading, writing, and critical
thinking skills introduced in ENGL& 101. In this course, students will get extra time
and personalized academic coaching from their instructor. Additionally, students
may work in small groups to exchange tips and strategies to tackle writing
challenges collaboratively. This course includes no additional homework
assignments. Instead, the focus is on providing 1:1 time with instructors and
fostering a sense of community through small group interactions and guided
practice activities.
Components Credits
Lecture 2
Enrollment Requirements
Simple Requisites
Course Requirements
Enrollment Requirements
Type
Corequisite
English Composition
Enroll in the following Courses:
• ENGL&101 - English Composition I
